TITLE: The Future of Money: How UAE banks are embracing stablecoins and blockchain?
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIs1IK2U_IE
VIDEO_ID: zIs1IK2U_IE

TRANSCRIPT:
So Michael, over the last couple of months and years in the crypto space, it's always been difficult for banks to enter the crypto space.
 Do you believe this is starting to change what other regulatory changes are going on in the industry evolving?
 Oh, absolutely. That's happening not only in the UAE, the whole GC region and also in the Western world as well.
 So, since the US Trump administration, you can see many banks open up.
 And we need to understand as well, what's the dynamic behind that?
 You know, in the very beginning of the crypto world, you talk about only crypto trading.
 And right now we're talking about many use cases of the crypto, including stablecoins.
 So actually on that particular point, I mean, how do you see the future of banking for a bank like Zad?
 For example, especially you mentioned stablecoins. Do you believe stablecoins will be used more widely,
 especially with what we're seeing in the US now with the Genius Act?
 Do you believe this will really become a global phenomenon of the usage of stablecoins and banks?
 Well, absolutely. I believe actually stablecoin has a many use case.
 And that's including from the supply chain financing, cost border, pay fight,
 and also talking about the remittance business as well, right?
 So this use case actually has to have an infrastructure set to be ready.
 Now, banking actually is no longer actually doing the thing alone.
 They try to leverage also the FinTech and also the crypto plot change to make it happen.
 To what extent, Michael, you know, when we look at banking in general, right?
 So, historically, we always had an issue with banks and core spending banks, for example, in the US,
 banks didn't want to deal with any bank globally that was dealing with crypto.
 Do you believe some of these changes going on with the Genius Act in the US and others, you know,
 other pieces of legislation and the change of administration will change the risk appetite of correspondent banks
 to deal with banks globally that were there touching crypto?
 Absolutely. I think there are a few things that we're seeing this happens.
 So, number one, actually the adoption for the banks in the US itself because of the regulation changes
 and then more banks actually are done on this and for institution use and not only for the retail.
 Second thing is that I think because of the popularity of the stablecoins,
 we need to understand that, you know, in the crypto trading world,
 usually the liquidity has come from, you know, for example, like the Bitcoin course again, the USDT, USDC.
 Now, because of the adoption actually for the different markets,
 when you have the local currency stablecoin cross again actually on this, it can be the liquid pair.
 So I think that will gain changes.
 And to what extent do you believe the US banks could also get involved in the stablecoin ecosystem?
 For example, now any bank that is trading with crypto, let's say globally, has a benefit because a lot of these US banks
 are not involved in it. When it comes to say the US dollar stablecoin and it becomes regulated,
 do you believe the US banks will play a bigger role in the space as well?
 I think the majority right now the participant in the crypto is quite spread around the different regions.
 US is one of those, actually one of the largest, but China as well, and also the Asia, right?
 Especially on the South Korea and also the Japan's.
 The dominant currency for the local currency always the local currency.
 Today, I think the debtor, they're doing very well, 140 billion,
 but also bring the risk of the reactor of the system.
 But that reflects actually the needs from the government to buy more from the foreigners in turn after the local treasury.
 So I guess actually the appetites for the bank would change because of the appetite from the government chain as well.
 So this brings up the whole topic of actually real-world assets and yield-bearing assets.
 To what extent do you believe we will see the usage of yield-bearing assets within the bank ecosystem when it comes to like RWA products?
 Well, so I think in the region we talk about a few asset classes which is quite common to organize.
 So first one is the properties, the second one is the goal.
 The first one I think is coming is the debt markets.
 In some of that market is quite easy to share the yield, money market fund is quite easy to share the yield.
 But I think quite interesting can be like the goal, for example, right?
 So let's say you're part of the goal in the custodian, actually that would not generate any interest,
 but if you took a nice goal can be a collateral pitch by someone else as a, you know, instruments that share the yields.
 That really unlocks a whole millions of dollars of actually collateral that can be used to put to use.
 From a, talk about the crypto and yield, I mean, obviously Zand Bank recently got its viral license here in Dubai.
 Could you share with us what is the vision of Zand when it comes especially with regards to this viral license that you guys have received?
 Well, Zand actually is not really a digital retail bank.
 Zand actually focused on the corporate FinTech and digital assets.
 On the digital asset space actually we have a quite strong belief that, you know, some bank actually has to set up and then to reach between the trade fund and the DFI.
 I think so far actually we have a good blessing from the VARRA and because of the vision in leaders.
 I mean, they set the ground that, you know, the UAE has to be actually one of the leading crypto hub on the other one of the leading on the innovations.
 You know, to push it forward to the digital economy and then you need the bank to be the one and neighbor.
 This kind of bridge between the trade fund and also the crypto.
 So we are the one, actually we are the first one probably and then we are right now is a leading one as well.
 So I think this will enable a lot of global players, regional players come to UAE.
 Do you think the other banks will follow as well getting their VARRA licenses and the crypto licenses?
 Well, absolutely.
 But I think that links to the pain point as well that, you know, the first thing we have to solve is a U.S. dollar hearing.
 Yeah.
 Right. Today actually liquidity mainly cross again the U.S. dollars.
 But on the day actually adoptions is more cross again the local currencies which is the local stable coins that we actually, you know, game changing against, you know, to the local markets.
 You know, at that point when we talk a lot of the crypto industry many believe that pretty much all the banks in the UAE will have, we launch stable coins.
 Do you believe that's something that we may see like with the banks locally launching stable coins over the next one or two years?
 I guess actually that will be replay again actually back to many years in the U.S.
 If you remember there are a few hundred stable coins, right?
 So at the end game actually is that, you know, what other use scale you're having, right?
 And then what are the risk of the type of the bank and then what exactly actually you want to achieve, right?
 JP Morgan, for example, doing a very good job like Canada's because they have the buy side sell side, the whole ecosystem, and I think they are kind of success.
 I think most of the banks actually may not necessarily go to the public change.
 They may go for a closed loop and then in order to capture actually trade finance.
 But again, you know, it's very linked to the risk of time.
 I mean, if your risk is high and you have a risk control grid and then you can answer the crypto space.
 Especially trade finance are so much need for using blockchain.
 I mean, the paperwork on there is quite crazy.
 Talking about optimization actually, what's your view on the usage of AI in banks?
 How do you have a zand look at the developments in AI from either cost optimization or other use cases within the bank?
 Yeah, so we start actually the AI journey back to almost like one and a half years ago.
 Right now we have already the AI team and then we try to cross again the AI with a different use case like blockchain, for example.
 One of the use cases we're using is that we're using AI to do transaction monitoring.
 That's helped a lot, right?
 And then we probably will have some payment solution launched very soon in the markets and the fraud detection we're very, very happy to rely on the AI as well.
 That's a good area where we need AI to play a role.
 Maybe last question, Mick, to you is really from a CEO of a bank, right?
 There's obviously tons of risk in the crypto ecosystem and in banking.
 What is on a personal level the one risk that keeps you up at night that you're really focused on that you think, you know, we should keep an eye on?
 No downtime.
 That's the 24/7 market of crypto.
 Absolutely, absolutely.
 That's why it doesn't work.
 Well, thank you.
 Thank you for being with us.
 I was Michael Chan, the CEO of ZenBank, talking about how actually the traditional banks like Zen are coming into the world of crypto.
 Thank you very much, Michael, for being with us today.
 Thank you, Henry. Thanks.
 Are your children prepared for the future of money?
 Order decoding crypto with Henry and Hodler, the number one new release kids book on Amazon.
 (upbeat music)
