TITLE: The Future of Money: Institutional DeFi adoption and the future of on-chain finance with Michael Bentley
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=es1yGj6560U
VIDEO_ID: es1yGj6560U

TRANSCRIPT:
I want to jump right in and basically start about, obviously, we've seen tremendous growth
 in the DeFi world in the last couple of months, maybe from an oil or lab's perspective, what
 are you seeing this growth?
 Where you seeing this growth coming from?
 Is it retail?
 Is it institutional?
 Or do you think it's overall growth that we're seeing towards decentralized ecosystems?
 Well, I would say, yeah, I mean, ourselves, for instance, we've seen growth from zero
 up to three billion in just the last nine months.
 So definitely, there's a lot of growth happening right now in the sector.
 I would say, largely it's been driven by institutional adoption of crypto following the inauguration
 of Trump last year.
 I think that's certainly helped things.
 So, previously, crypto was mainly seen as being maybe like a retail thing, but increasingly,
 it's very much institutional.
 And what do you think Michael is needed for it to have more institutional interest?
 Obviously, we've seen a lot of interest recently from hyperliquid, a lot of the interest on
 the trading side with perps and others.
 When it comes, obviously, from an oil or lab's perspective, what do you think could be the
 catalyst?
 It's obviously what we've seen in the US with Trump helped a lot.
 But do you believe something else could be needed that to really propel more interest
 and defy from these institutional investors you alluded to?
 Honestly, the interest has been there for a very long time.
 It's largely been dependent on awaiting for positive movements and regulations, I would
 say.
 So, the geniuses act in the US and some movements in the EU, with the MICA and everything certainly
 helped move things along.
 And now, we're seeing this explosive growth in stablecoin adoption as well for payments
 and things.
 So, there's more and more people such as stablecoins, those stablecoins, many of them will inevitably
 flow to DeFi, where people want to seek yielding opportunities and ways to lend and borrow assets
 as well.
 So, on Euler, we see a lot of institutions.
 We've had a adoption of a market for utilizing BlackRock's tokenized money market fund,
 Biddle, on Euler.
 We've got Apollo Credit Fund also as well, we've got markets for those.
 So, yeah, collateralizing assets from people called them real world assets and using them
 to take out loans in Euler, which then drives additional yield for people using stablecoins.
 I think that's the main driver that we've seen over the past few months.
 And what does CEO, Michael, you look at the competitor of Landscape.
 You see your competitors being the centralized platforms who are also trying to provide yield
 in different ways and forms, or some of the other DeFi platforms from the Aviz of this
 world and others who are trying to provide, let's say, yield in other services to users
 in the DeFi ecosystem.
 It's a little bit of both.
 I mean, the DeFi market, prior to this wave of institutional adoption, was already quite
 large.
 People have a lot of crypto native types on Euler, for sure.
 But increasingly, we're starting to see interest from FinTechs and other centralized parties
 looking to use DeFi as the rails on the back end.
 And so, use Euler as a kind of infrastructure play on the back end to provide services on
 the front end.
 And fundamentally, I think that's just because the rails of DeFi are just that much more
 composable, more efficient, transparent, and so on.
 These parties don't need to reinvent the wheel every time.
 So, I think we're going to see a lot more of that in the next six months.
 It's very interesting.
 And I think there's a, you know, when we talk about this overlap of centralized exchanges
 and DeFi exchanges, obviously, we mentioned earlier the institutional investors coming
 in.
 From a retail perspective, do you believe that we still have a UX/UI problem in the DeFi
 world that actually that is acting as a barrier for the entry of further retail investors
 in the ecosystem?
 A little bit, yeah, I mean, there's no shying away from that.
 It's not the, as a brand-new person, you know, if I was trying to introduce my mum to come
 and lend on Euler, I think she might struggle to be perfectly honest, but that's where this
 adoption of the FinTech play comes in.
 I think if we, if regulations permit, I think we'll see a much more efficient and a friendly
 UX for DeFi where actually people are using, you know, the front end of a popular FinTech
 cap like Robin Hood or Revolu or whoever else.
 And that's actually feeding into some DeFi app like all of on the back end.
 And then maybe users just won't even know they're using DeFi.
 They'll just receive all the main benefits in terms of extra yield and everything, but
 without having to face some of the UX challenges.
 Absolutely.
 You know, we always talk about the future of DeFi.
 We know when, as a CEO now, you look, let's say down the horizon, how do you see in the
 next, let's say, three to five years, what, where do you think Euler Labs will be in three
 to five years?
 And also where DeFi will be in three to five years.
 Well, I see a lot of growth.
 That's for sure.
 It's hard to say how much I really think we might be on the cusp of moving all the finance
 on chain.
 I think a lot of people in our industry have been saying that for years and there may be
 a few giggles and snares from outside, to be honest.
 But a lot of there's been a huge number of people from banks and traditional finance
 that are slowly being converted.
 And yeah, the size of TradFi is so much greater than DeFi.
 If we even see a fraction of that continues to come on chain, then we're poised for explosive
 growth.
 So I wouldn't be surprised to see 10x growth in the amount of TVL or total deposits in
 DeFi within a few years.
 And beyond that, I think the space needs to continue to prove itself as a more transparent
 and secure way of doing finance.
 Yeah.
 Absolutely.
 Also, if I always say that, if you think at the beginning of COVID, there was less than
 a billion dollars in TVL, and we've seen the growth that we've seen right now, let's say
 what is the biggest risk you think we face as an ecosystem when it comes to the growth
 of DeFi?
 You believe there's some of the hurdles that we discussed previously, the UXUI, or do you
 believe there's other hurdles like from a regulatory perspective or some smart contract
 of failures or bugs or hacks that can happen that could slow down, not by way, let's say
 of an imperfect analogy, but what FTX did to the centralized and the crypto space a couple
 of years ago.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 There were a few challenges I had for sure.
 I mean, I think we need more positive moves for regulators.
 I mean, like any technology, things are just moving very, very fast these days, and I think
 regulations need to keep pace with that and make sure that there's consumer protections
 but still that freedom to innovate and provide a better service.
 The trad firerails are kind of stuck and clunky and old and they're broken for many people,
 so innovation is badly needed and regulators need to continue to welcome that, I think.
 On the smart contract risk, I think this industry is very nascent and smart contract development
 is very difficult.
 There's no no shying away from that, there have been some challenges there for sure.
 However, I think the system we have here, if you use traditional finance, the policy is
 normally security by obscurity, which is really a failed way to do security.
 In DeFi, everything, all the applications are available for everyone to see on chain publicly
 and it provides a much more robust, transparent way to do things and create some more anti-fragile
 financial system in the long run.
 So I think that won't be the biggest challenge going forward or certainly it's been something
 that's been a better challenge in the early years of DeFi.
 I love it.
 It's not an anti-fragile financial system, that was Michael Bentley, the CEO of Euler
 Labs.
 Michael, great to have you with us on the show.
 I look forward to having you again on the in-studio here in Dubai in the short term.
