TITLE: The Future of Money: What will make crypto mainstream?
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LRmWn-P8tQE
VIDEO_ID: LRmWn-P8tQE

TRANSCRIPT:
(upbeat music)
 - I've been saying, great.
 You guys are really lucky to have really the best MC
 in the market today with Mr. Work on.
 Guys, very, very excited to be with you all today.
 We're gonna have a lot of fun over the next couple of minutes.
 - This episode is powered by Zappobank.
 Experience the future of banking with Zappobank,
 the first fully licensed
 and regulated Bitcoin enabled banking group.
 With Zappobank's all-in-one app,
 you can grow, transact, and secure your Bitcoin.
 Earn annual Bitcoin yield paid daily
 on your Bitcoin and US dollar savings
 plus cashback on your card spending.
 Or instantly send and receive Bitcoin
 with a lighting network and seamlessly transact in USDC,
 USDC, US dollars, euros, and pounds.
 All this is backed by rock-solid security,
 including military-grade Swiss bunkers,
 cutting-edge digital protocols,
 and strict regulatory oversight.
 Sign up now at zappobank.com/capsule,
 or check the link in the episode description.
 - To really talk about how we're gonna bring crypto
 to the masses, I cannot promise we're gonna answer
 all the questions today, but I promise you,
 it's gonna be interesting, insightful,
 and hopefully very educational as well.
 And I'm very lucky today.
 We're really with the dream team
 of folks to talk about the topic today.
 I'm, of course, Michael Shola.
 Many of you know him as a CEO and co-founder of Fireblocks.
 For those who don't know, it's an enterprise platform
 to manage digital assets operations
 and build innovative businesses on the blockchain.
 Fun fact about Fireblocks, by the way,
 they have over 2,000 institutional clients.
 They've secured the transfer of over 6 trillion
 in digital assets and created over 200 million wallets.
 Fun fact, by the way, about Michael,
 one is not the CEO of Fireblocks.
 He's an avid snowboarder and a massive fan
 of heli snowboarding.
 So here we go.
 Talk about the BCP risk there, Michael, huh?
 But I'm very excited to have you on board with us.
 Then we have Mike Silagadze from Etrify.
 Mike is the first eat-staking protocol
 that allows stakers to maintain full control of their keys
 to the entire staking process, making it
 the only truly decentralized liquid-staking platform.
 We're going to cover a lot of topics around that.
 Fun fact about Mike, by the way, he's a pilot in a spare time.
 He flies a Cyrus plane, which is-- here we go--
 good way of having it on board.
 And last but not least, of course,
 we have Raj Rambat from Zebu.
 And the decentralized liquidity protocol that has
 crossed $4 billion in invoice settlements,
 transforming institutional payments and settlements.
 When one fun fact about Raj has to say, as an Armenian,
 I love that, he's a massive chess player.
 So if you look at competitive chess,
 he's the guy to play with there.
 Raj, great to have you on board with us today.
 So today, what I want to do, I want
 to cover various topics that we're
 going to go to bring crypto to the masses.
 And I'm going to cover them one by one.
 And when I name it, first, I want you guys to give me
 a probability from 1 to 10.
 10 being, that could be the killer app
 that we're going to hit the billion users.
 And then we'll discuss to each one of them a one by one.
 Michael, I'm going to start with you, first of all,
 on tokenization.
 It's a big topic.
 Our RWA, there's obviously a lot of activity,
 the conference, about tokenization, RWA.
 Before that, 1 to 10.
 What's the chance tokenization becomes the killer app
 that we have?
 Easy 9.2.
 9.2, well, very detailed.
 6.
 6.
 OK.
 Michael?
 9.
 9.
 So what is that?
 What do you think we have a big chance with that being
 the killer app?
 Look, I think that, first of all, the infrastructure
 for financial products, as we know.
 The traditional infrastructure is outdated.
 It's incompatible with the internet.
 It's expensive.
 And basically, operating it on the blockchain
 by tokenizing, first of all, traditional financial assets.
 And more so, some of the newer assets,
 like NFTs, points, creating new experiences.
 I think that there is a high probability that--
 and also a very high conviction, by the way,
 from most practitioners that this is going to happen.
 I think it actually plays well together with some of the other
 topics we're going to talk about today.
 But I think the conviction and basically the delta
 between the 10x experience that we're going to get from cost,
 speed, accessibility, distribution, and so on from this,
 I think it really makes a good case for tokenization
 to become one of them.
 Michael, we've been wrong, Greg.
 I remember myself even going on TV in 18, 2019, saying,
 it's the year of security tokens or tokenization.
 Often, we had a problem with the issuers and the demand.
 Waiting now is different on tokenization.
 Yeah, I think-- look, I think let's take--
 I think one of the assets they're really picking up,
 which is money market funds.
 Yeah, treasuries, basically.
 And it basically went from zero, literally almost zero,
 to $2 billion from the beginning of the year.
 And I think, from my perspective, when I look back,
 and I think there was a conviction back in 2018
 that it's going to happen, but I would say that the biggest
 thing was, do we have the quality assets?
 And what we are seeing right now is that the most
 reputable asset managers, like BlackRock, and WisdomTree,
 and all those guys are stepping in and creating those assets.
 So clearly, we have reputable assets coming in.
 And that starts really A, to create the ecosystem.
 And B, we actually have use cases.
 So we're going to talk about stable coins.
 We're probably going to talk a bit about trading.
 So think about the combination of stable coins,
 how do you generate yield through treasuries,
 clearly talking money market funds, and other assets?
 It makes the case.
 So I'm not arguing that it's going to be nine
 in the next 12 months.
 But I think that the direction of travel over the next five
 years, especially as the regulation will catch up,
 is pretty strong.
 I want to talk to you, Michael, about D five.
 Why six, by the way?
 Why are you not that bullish quickly?
 So I don't disagree with anything that Michael was saying.
 It's just less bullish.
 Yeah, well, I think maybe it is a time horizon thing.
 Like, is that going to be the thing that in the next six
 months brings a billion users on chain?
 I just have a hard time seeing that.
 OK, so let's talk about D five now.
 Talk about chain.
 Remember, really, at the beginning of COVID,
 we had less than a billion in TVL and D five.
 And now, obviously, we're at pretty multiple times
 that amount.
 D five.
 Could D five be where we bring the crypto to the masses?
 110.
 I'd say eight and a half.
 Eight and a half.
 You're very detailed on your predictions.
 Michael?
 I think the six.
 [LAUGHTER]
 Mike, I probably would also say six.
 Oh, really?
 Interesting.
 So why is that?
 What do you think?
 Well, I think-- well, first of all, D five is not usable.
 Like, if you think about going from zero to doing even
 the first most basic transaction as a normal human
 being, figuring out a hardware wallet or a browser
 extension, seed phrases, signing approval--
 the whole thing is insane.
 I mean, it's completely insane.
 Multiple times a week, I'll have to spend hours with friends
 trying to explain to them how to borrow some stables on Ave.
 And it's always an ordeal.
 And I think, to some degree, that's always
 going to be the case because it's a pretty in-depth process.
 So D five in and of itself, I don't
 think is going to bring a billion users to crypto.
 But some sort of wrapper that perhaps a company like D five
 is building, Mike.
 But D five in and of itself, I think, is way too nerdy.
 It's just they're coming to be unified.
 They're not having the same issues because they have a good
 UI and actually not have these issues, basically.
 Well, that's our goal.
 Yeah, I mean, Ether five is a suite, a vertically integrated
 suite of products that allows users to interact with D five
 but in sort of a bubble wrap easy way
 while still getting all the benefits of censorship
 resistance, non-custodial, like all the good stuff
 that you get with crypto.
 So that to us, that includes staking, deploying assets
 in D five and spending with our new Ether five cash product
 in real life.
 I'm going to ask you afterwards, I was staking as well.
 Michael, why are you six by the way on that one?
 You're still not the time horizon or?
 No, I was actually, because of the same reasons, right?
 I think that the user experience of D five at the moment
 is fairly complex.
 And I think that at the end of the day,
 D five becomes extremely useful when it's applied to the nines.
 But also right now, most of the utility of D five
 is really around trading like core crypto pairs
 or other things that are inherent is somewhat speculative.
 And I think that just generally speaking to take
 to assume that speculative activity overall
 is going to be what will take us to the ninth is like I'm
 not in that camp.
 Interesting.
 The third one, this is something we've
 stuck for many, many years in crypto.
 Blockchain has infrastructure for real world use cases, right?
 From reducing costs to enhancing services one to 10.
 Actually, let me start with Michael,
 and then we'll come to you.
 Michael, one to 10 blockchain for real use cases
 as an infrastructure.
 10.
 Wow.
 Mike.
 Man, you're putting so much pressure.
 I don't know, seven.
 Seven.
 10.
 10.
 Well, I guess that's what it is like, why 10?
 I mean, I think it's the two topics that we covered so far,
 actually three.
 So real world assets, DeFi, and then
 abstracting users away from complexity.
 That's essentially what we're trying to do at Zebu.
 We're natively aggregating multiple sets of services,
 where web two users that have real problems that
 can be solved using blockchain infrastructure come to Zebu
 to be onboarded and get access to all of these services,
 simply to solve their problem, right?
 Do they want to download a Metamask wallet to do payments?
 No.
 Do they want to pay $1.09 for $1 of USDT out of India or Ethiopia?
 No, right?
 So blockchain as an infrastructure
 is very important in order to do settlements,
 tokenizing in-liquid assets, and increasing accessibility
 cross borders.
 But user abstraction and integrated services
 is the main solution to it.
 But when you're selling to web two firms,
 I mean, often for it to interact with your technology,
 it needs to be materially better, right?
 If it's just good enough, the career risk for people
 making decisions at a telco, for example,
 is not worth it often, right?
 And that's often, back in the day,
 we used to think Bitcoin is going to solve all the problems,
 right, and often it didn't.
 How are you overcoming that when you're pitching services
 like Zebu?
 Great, absolutely.
 So I mean, think about wholesale voice, SMS,
 and data providers, right?
 Their average margin on any transaction is 5% to 6%.
 Their settlement cost on average comes out to 3.5% to 4%.
 Well, rendering the entire transaction nearly useless.
 So at Zebu, we essentially bring that cost basis down
 to 1% by setting up local liquidity pairs with ZBU
 and local currencies.
 We aggregate KYC and multiple sets of solutions
 within the Zebu platform.
 Fireblocks is actually a major partner of us
 in order to enable these services.
 And we always ensure that counterparty settlement
 is in US dollar, right?
 Because on-ramps for US dollar are very, very expensive,
 but off-ramps are actually profitable in most jurisdictions.
 Yeah, correct.
 Interesting.
 OK, it's interesting you were 10 as well, Michael,
 on this one.
 Well, let me go to the other one.
 This is a topic we used to discuss, again, a couple of years
 ago, better custody and security solutions.
 Do you think if we have better security solutions,
 we'll hit crypto demands.
 So what do you think, from 1 to 10?
 8.0.
 8.0.
 Of the tension.
 It's a prerequisite, I guess.
 Yeah, I don't know.
 8.
 Michael.
 Yeah, it's a prerequisite.
 So I'm not sure it's kind of like how do you exactly map it,
 but you know, 9.
 Obviously, you're in the business,
 right, of offering custody tech and security.
 To what extent do you-- because it's been over $1 billion
 in hack this year alone, for example.
 So let me kind of rephrase the situation.
 I don't think security in no situation
 is basically why people use a technology,
 but lack of security is a situation in which people
 stop using a technology, right?
 So I'll give-- in my previous life,
 I was basically dealing with mobile security
 and cloud security and so on, right?
 If our mobile devices will get hacked every second day,
 if your cloud service is AWS and so on
 will be compromised, then nobody would use it, right?
 And by the way, you go decade and a half back, right?
 Basically, a lot of the arguments
 are why it took some time for people to adopt and trust,
 like AWS, was because people didn't trust security, right?
 So the point is that I think we still
 have a gap in terms of how people leverage wallets,
 and custody technology, custody, and so on.
 In many cases, it's being done through tools
 that are built in-house, they don't go through the right audits,
 and they're not being configured properly, right?
 And then people lose money, people who trust,
 people who live the ecosystem, right?
 No one who lost $1,000, $5,000, $1 million
 because of a TAF is going to continue and trust the system.
 It's interesting.
 You know, especially, I get a lot of people that get scammed.
 Nothing to do with the technology, right?
 From the pig butchering to the fake website,
 stuff like that, right?
 So, okay, another one you mentioned, a gap, Michael.
 It's very interesting, right?
 That gap that can actually cause an issue.
 I will bring it to you, Raj, you know?
 Like, what about, like, Web 2.5, right?
 Like, we have Web 2.2 that is centralized by the big tech
 players, and we have Web 3, which is obviously a permissionless.
 Let's say Web 2.5, where we're using AI, VR.
 Well, actually, maybe we have better control on our data,
 for example, right?
 To what extent do you think that could be the how we bring
 crypto to the masses?
 Let me start with you, Michael.
 1 to 10, Web 2.5.
 I think it's 10, right?
 It's basically like the stepping stone here.
 2.
 2, oh, wow, I'm going to come back to that.
 10.
 10, what do you think that could be the killer app?
 I mean, I look at Web 2.5 as a bridge of bringing Web 2 users
 to Web 3, right?
 And people have short attention spans.
 Most people that don't have a direct significance
 to a product won't try to use it unless it's
 super, super easy to do it, right?
 So that's how I look at Web 2.5 is kind of purposefully
 built products, services, and solutions
 that cater to real-world needs.
 And today, most Web 3 solutions are built for Web 3 people,
 right?
 I think we're kind of trading services and solutions
 amongst ourselves, and there isn't much
 built to bring others on board.
 So that's actually what C was also focused on,
 is these telecom institutions that weren't otherwise ever
 going to look at Web 3 as a whole,
 we're bringing them on board because we're
 solving a key problem for them, and we're
 making it very, very easy to do so.
 The ease of use, I think, it's absolutely key.
 Can I use it?
 Mike, why do you think-- why it's a 2?
 Why are you--
 Yeah, it's a negative one.
 Well, here's the particular sense in which I think it's a 2.
 Different ways to look at it, obviously.
 I think CD-Fi as a category, if we think of that as Web 2.0,
 in many ways, actually ends up undermining crypto adoption.
 If you look at some of the most popular cases
 of, quote unquote, crypto users, where
 they interact through some centralized platform,
 the behavior that those users are engaging in,
 in most cases, gambling and speculation,
 has nothing to do with crypto, right?
 Like, let's say they're trading tokens on some exchange.
 You could jumble the letters of the tokens.
 It doesn't matter.
 It has nothing to do with crypto.
 They're just clicking a button on a screen and gambling.
 And that usurps the actual concept
 of what crypto was supposed to be about.
 Stateless currency, unstoppable money,
 and turns it into basically a giant casino with crypto
 being this irrelevant sort of window dressing.
 So I think you almost have to make a hard stance and say,
 look, it actually has to be crypto.
 You actually have to have self custody.
 You actually have to be able to have censorship resistance.
 If you don't have that, then, like, what's the point?
 Where are we doing all this?
 Just run it all on one giant database and call it a day.
 But I would argue, Mike, in that sense,
 we're losing a lot of people, like my lovely mom,
 barely could use a centralized exchange and let alone--
 But she shouldn't have to care.
 She should just be able to use an app.
 And it's beautiful and it's simple,
 but no one can steal her money.
 But what you don't call it, I think
 this is like, you know, Web 2.5, you know, what you're describing.
 Well, OK, maybe we're talking nomenclature.
 I'm talking about something where it's basically
 a centralized product, but you know, it's called crypto.
 OK, I own crypto through an ETF.
 Like, do you own crypto?
 No.
 You own a ticker.
 No, that's not-- but yeah, I don't think that's
 how we define the Web 2.5.
 I think this is actually-- for me, Web 2.5 is exactly what you
 define.
 It's kind of like, Web 2 at the front, Web 3 at the back.
 And it's so-- I mean, the UX is obstructed so well
 that you don't know that it's self-castely, right?
 You don't know that you're basically
 now using a stable coin to base someone.
 You don't know that-- but that's actually
 what's happening behind the scenes, right?
 And I think that-- you know, sorry for stealing that.
 But, you know, like, what Telegram is doing with some
 of the things that they are just like embedding it.
 There are additional players that are kind of looking at it.
 So I think this is kind of interesting.
 Yeah, if it's-- you know, if we're talking semantics
 and, you know, we agree that Web 2.5 means self-castely,
 then sure, I'll upgrade to a 9.
 I mean, OK, good.
 See, I'm moving.
 And can my mom start using it?
 That's a quick question, you know?
 I mean, at a design level, it's essentially just
 being self-aware that, you know, how familiar you
 are with a lot of these processes and actions.
 Most people might not be, right?
 You essentially have to put yourself in the shoes
 of other users, potential Web 2 users,
 who have never interacted with these products in the past.
 I think that would be the key solution.
 OK.
 Next one.
 This is another one we discussed over the years.
 Regulations.
 Is having regulatory clarity going to bring crypto to the masses?
 Michael, from 1 to 10.
 7.
 Mike, pre-requisite.
 Yeah, I don't know, 8, 9.
 7.5.
 I love that you're-- Michael, what do you think?
 What's your view on that?
 First of all, my head of regulatory is sitting here
 in the front door.
 It's a 10.
 It's very important.
 Don't worry.
 It's very relevant.
 No, but look, I think that the--
 I agree that I think this is mostly a prerequisite, right?
 I think that what's happening right now
 is that in countries where we have regulatory clarity, right?
 Like over here, UAE, Japan, Australia, so on, right?
 Soon, you know, basically through Europe,
 we basically start seeing the adoption, right?
 And basically, companies can thrive,
 investment can be made, and things are moving forward.
 Where I live in the United States, right?
 I think that right now we are basically
 seeing the opposite, right?
 I mean, the one can basically do anything.
 And more so, I think that the main issue right now with the US--
 and I think a lot of people underappreciate it--
 is how entangled, basically, the regulatory landscape is
 and how massive influence the US
 has on all the downstream players.
 So hopefully, we'll have the election,
 and maybe we'll see who wins, right?
 But we should all be hopeful that things will improve.
 Let's see.
 I think it's a big catalyst in the markets as well, you know?
 Let's see what happens on that one.
 Another one-- now, this is an interesting one as well--
 on banking, right?
 Before ETF came, we're like, oh, when the ETF comes,
 everybody will be able to have access to Bitcoin.
 It's been obviously very successful, right?
 Like 20 billion assets, more successful ETF ever in history.
 What about banking?
 If banking-- banks become more pro-crypto,
 and I want to ask you, Mike, about neo-banking.
 But let's say banking.
 If banks are more pro-crypto, what's your view, Raj?
 1 to 10?
 Would that be a killer app?
 No, I would say like 6.
 6.
 Mike, I'm going to say if we replace banks with crypto,
 then it's a 10.
 I'm coming back to that.
 Michael?
 I think like 5.
 Interesting.
 Mike, what do you think?
 What's your view?
 I'm going to come back to you, Michael.
 What we need are banks that are crypto-native.
 Right now, we've got--
 I mean, we all know we have this fractional reserve system
 with endless red tape regulation.
 And so you've got a small number of incumbents
 that are pretty awful.
 So what needs to happen are crypto-native banks,
 where you don't need traditional banks.
 You can just operate on crypto-rails natively.
 And that's essential for bringing crypto to the masses.
 Without that, you always have this bridge to DeFi.
 And the analogy I like to use is when you mix shit and ice
 cream, you don't have ice cream anymore.
 It doesn't matter the balance of the two.
 So until we have crypto-native payment rails, that's just not
 going to work.
 But if we have the case, how do you think this shit will
 react with the traditional banking system to react?
 You think we'll have the neo-banking system and banking?
 Like, how would that happen?
 Like in crypto, you can argue crypto,
 the way centralized crypto we have in DeFi,
 there's a kind of harmonious relationship-ish.
 But you think with neo-banks and traditional banks,
 they could even collaborate?
 I think it's going to be unstoppable.
 I think in the same way that it was much easier
 to regulate a printing press with magazines and newspapers,
 censorship was a lot easier.
 And then internet was unstoppable.
 I mean, you could try to regulate it,
 but it was a completely different system.
 So I think in the same way when the crypto-payment system
 evolves and becomes sufficiently mature,
 it'll just be unstoppable.
 And it'll emerge, probably, in jurisdictions
 that are more friendly.
 I guess, maybe here, maybe in UAE and others.
 And then it'll make its way.
 And it'll just become part of the system.
 Interesting.
 Michael, what do you think it's five?
 Yeah, I mean, look, I think, first of all,
 and I'll kind of set the stage.
 We have about 60, 70 banks that are our clients, right?
 So a bit like pitching against--
 And you don't refer them as shit, of course?
 No.
 No, I think, I think.
 But I mean, first of all, look how far we came
 without the banks being involved, right?
 And second of all, I very much agree with Mike.
 And I was making this argument quite often.
 And I was making this argument also quite often
 to the senior banking execs, right?
 That the people that are actually eating their lunch
 is like Revolut and Robin Hood, the new bank,
 and pretty much in every territory.
 When I travel, I don't use city.
 And I don't use Chase, which are the banks where I have my fiat.
 I use Revolut.
 And I use Revolut every day, right?
 And I use Revolut crypto.
 And I basically do everything within.
 So it's still kind of like, you know, the CFI.
 But they're giving me the experience, right, that I want,
 right?
 And they just like, you know, they so digitally native, right,
 that I think for them to be the bridge
 into this technology is pretty clear.
 How Chase and City and go downstream to like, you know,
 a lot of the other banks, which they have even more
 outdated infrastructure, will be able to create something
 that is a native experience that gives you.
 So I think, you know, what might actually happen at some point,
 that they will be kind of the gateway drug, right?
 Basically, they will expose something, which is kind of like
 semi-crypto, but like, you know, really crappy experience, right?
 And then we will have a lot of people that will say, wow,
 this is like amazing.
 Who is actually the best in doing this?
 And then people will basically start moving into the new banks,
 into like, you know, the crypto native players.
 That's I think what is more likely to happen here.
 It would take time, but I think this is a, yeah.
 - It's interesting, I still believe the banking system now
 is one of the biggest risks we have in the crypto space.
 If you think even US correspondent banks,
 as well, banks are doing it, we have issues.
 And you know, I don't know, Mike, you know,
 we talk about banks allowing it.
 Think about narrow banking, where people have tried
 to have narrow banks, where there's no lending,
 there's no money created, that was bad, you know?
 Like, I mean, there's a lot of interest
 that it's not in their best power of DeFi
 is that once you've got those rails, it's just code, right?
 I mean, you can just, you can layer on any number of services,
 you can launch new products, the whole thing is composable.
 - Yeah, smart contracts in a way
 that inherently are narrow banking, if you want.
 Another one, stablecoins.
 If you look at really the volume of transaction,
 we've had on stablecoins, I think we're over 140, 150 billion
 and assets now, can stablecoins be the killer app
 that brings us to the masses?
 Michael, I'll start with you.
 - 15.
 - 15, oh my God, here we go.
 Mike, man, 10.
 - 10?
 - 9.5, that's it.
 - So what do you think on the stablecoins?
 - Accessibility, yeah.
 - Accessibility is really hard in most markets
 for stablecoins, right?
 - Yeah.
 - You know, at the end of the day,
 the only stablecoins that I see working for the most part
 are dollar back stablecoins.
 - Yeah.
 - And in which case, procurement costs of dollar
 in most markets is really, really high.
 Forest conversion fees are really, really high.
 And you know, you look at India as a market today, right?
 - Yeah.
 - You try to go out there, buy one USDT,
 you have to pay a dollar and 9 cents, dollar and 11 cents.
 - Yeah.
 - So, I'm not sure if it's the direct activation
 to bring on Web2 users yet.
 Unless there's a lot of products built around it
 to abstract them away from that cost
 and complexity of procurement.
 - Michael, why 15?
 - It's happening.
 - Yeah.
 - I mean, that's what's happening.
 We've seen, from the beginning of the year,
 we've seen like 800% increase.
 And we're actually able to track it quite well
 because we have the payment engine,
 which is kind of like an application that allows,
 you know, folks like Raj to automate some of those things.
 And it just happening across all those corridors
 in an organic way.
 You see hundreds of companies,
 I think we onboarded 150 crypto native PSPs
 that are taking advantage across and just massive.
 - Yeah.
 - And that's, and maybe I'll give my personal example, right?
 We invoice people in dollars as a service provider.
 50% of our clients are basically paying us in stable coins.
 - Interesting.
 - And the story of how it started was back in 2019
 that we had a client that wanted to pay us like $30,000
 and he asked if he can pay with a credit card.
 And I told my sales lady back then, I thought like,
 we are not going to pay Stripe $1,000 commission.
 They sent us like, they sent us the $30,000 using USDP.
 It took one second to basically confirm.
 And back in the day the fees were low.
 So like it was like 30 cents, right?
 - Yeah.
 - But like, what thousand times better?
 - Yeah, yeah.
 It's incredible.
 And really the, especially in the mean,
 talk about you talk about payments,
 but in emerging markets,
 I can tell you being based in Dubai,
 I see what's happening in countries like Turkey, Africa,
 absolutely incredible on it, on that perspective.
 - Controversial one now, the next one.
 CBDC is talking about stablecoins.
 - Oh wow.
 - Who at CBDCs ironically, be the killer app.
 (bell dings)
 What do you think?
 - Uh, three.
 - Three, negative 10.
 - Negative 10.
 (laughing)
 - I'll second him on that one, negative 10.
 - That's not going to happen, obviously.
 But you don't think it can be counter effect?
 Where actually push people more to crypto
 being able to hold your keys and don't surveillance.
 No, it's like, it's a package deal.
 It's like, it actually ruins,
 it's like the way they redefine inflation
 is like rising prices.
 - Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
 - The expansion of the money supply,
 it's like, it actually breaks your brain, no.
 - So, yeah, and I also like, I mean,
 we spend like, you know, with some time with central banks.
 I think like, you know, there are still,
 like theoretical questions around CBDC
 that are very much unsolved, like, you know,
 wholesale BDC, retail BDC.
 It's also very cultural question in terms like, you know,
 which kind, like in the United States,
 there is no chance you will have, for example,
 retail with CBDC because people will see this like,
 in, in, in, that you invade their privacy, right?
 - Privacy, right?
 - Yeah, but in a way, we could have certain countries.
 I think about China, big parts of the Middle East,
 India, where you know this could work,
 and others are, I don't know how that's gonna happen,
 but let's see.
 That's another one.
 This is interesting when I love to get your views.
 More crypto education.
 Do you think that could be a way to bring to the masses?
 What do you think?
 - 10.
 - 10?
 - Yeah, nine.
 - 10.
 - Pretty much, yeah, yeah.
 Consensus there, like it's, okay.
 Interesting.
 Another one here.
 More VC capital, more investment in crypto.
 It's controversial.
 Michael, what do you think?
 - Negative 10.
 (both laughing)
 - Mike, which VCs?
 There's a big, depends who it is.
 Could be negative 10, could be positive 10.
 - I would say like five.
 - Five.
 - Five.
 - So what do you guys think?
 What Mike, why are you so negative on the VCs?
 I know there's a big spread, right?
 And everybody in their mom is a VC now, but like.
 - Well, I mean, look, I come from my past life
 was V2B SaaS, and I was spoiled.
 You know, like the investors that we spoke with,
 the partners, the associates, the behavior that was expected
 was such a high level of professionalism, ethics.
 You know, they wouldn't invest in competing products.
 They would, you know, there was, you know,
 Chinese firewalls, all kinds of like stuff
 where you're like, oh man, this is professional,
 it's well done.
 And then you come to crypto and you see a bunch
 of like lunatics, very wide range.
 Some are, you know, operate, perhaps at, you know,
 roughly those standards, and others are predatory,
 you know, awful people, and it's a real mixed bag.
 So if there's more of the good ones for sure,
 huge, huge help, you know, drive the ecosystem.
 If, you know, it keeps trending the other way,
 then it'll be bad.
 So no offense to all the VCs in the room, by the way,
 we still love you.
 - No, they're not leaving, by the way.
 - No, not the VCs disagree with me.
 They're even, even the bad ones are like, yeah,
 you know, that's the game.
 Michael, why are you minus 15?
 - No, I didn't say why first, why is that, but yeah.
 No, look, I think it's, it's sort of like, you know,
 aligned with what Mike said, and maybe I was a bit
 harsh on this, but there, I think there is like some
 inherent issue in crypto because of, specifically,
 because of the token model, right?
 That as a VC, you can do what you like,
 you call like liquid investment, right?
 But basically, you are able to de-risk very quickly
 in a very speculative way, right?
 So you're not required to take a long-term view
 on the project that you are backing,
 like in equity investments, that you are not,
 you know that like, you know, you make an investment,
 you need to basically have a very strong thesis
 why this thing is going to be valuable in six, eight years,
 or at least like, you know, there is some path
 to viability of that.
 And I think what actually happens is that we are seeing
 a lot of the money being thrown across a lot
 of different projects, a lot of the time,
 like very competing projects, and that actually,
 like, basically creates misalignment of talent, right?
 I think that what this industry really needs, right,
 is concentration of talent on like really quality projects,
 and basically projects that are aligned
 with what we are discussing here on the panel,
 and the fact that you have so much money going around,
 especially related to quick exits, right?
 Incentivize people to go after the quick buck,
 and rather like, you know, I think that,
 let me just be very controversial, right?
 I think that like a lot of the people
 that are working on L1s,
 it might have been much better
 if they would basically be part of the Ethereum core,
 and we would just have much better Ethereum.
 - Yeah.
 You think we have too many L1s?
 - What?
 - You think we have too many L1s, L2s?
 - Well, you can go to coin market cap
 and make up your mind.
 (laughing)
 - Yeah, when the product is the token,
 not the product, you have a problem.
 Even I'd say coming to events like these
 where you see a lot of, let's say, new ideas coming in,
 very similar to what you've got to discuss,
 makes you reflect on that perspective.
 Guys, as we're wrapping up a panel,
 so my best friend, my bell is with me here again this year.
 So, I'm gonna ask you guys quick questions,
 and I need one or two word answers, okay?
 And the bell is here to keep us honest on that perspective.
 You ready?
 - Yep.
 - Raj, I'm starting with you.
 You're here in Singapore this week.
 What's your favorite thing about Singapore?
 (bell dings)
 - I'd say people.
 - People?
 What a good politically diplomatic answer.
 - Mike, I love the Garden City thing.
 That's awesome.
 Here we go.
 Michael, favorite thing about Singapore?
 - The weather.
 - Weather, here we go.
 Second one, interest one.
 What do you think, we talk a lot of positive things today
 about how we bring to the masses.
 What do you think is the biggest risk
 that we face as an ecosystem
 for it not to bring crypto to the masses?
 Michael, I'll start with you.
 - And I think counterparty risk.
 - Interesting.
 - In what, in trading perspective?
 - In all the perspective we talked about,
 from custodial to self-custodial in trading.
 I mean, that's what basically took us out
 of the business two years ago, right?
 - Yeah.
 - I think it still exists.
 - Mike, what's our biggest risk that we're facing?
 - Gambling.
 - Gambling, really, why is that?
 - Yeah.
 - 'Cause the biggest problem with crypto
 is we have these giant casinos in the sky
 that rain money and it crowds out all the real shit.
 And everything gets replaced with gambling.
 And that's why, I mean, we're 15 years in
 and we're still not even using crypto for payments.
 The first thing, like, even that problem
 hasn't been solved yet.
 And it's 'cause just the gambling money is just flooding in
 and washing everything else out.
 But a sort of token is going to the moon
 and it's a Lambo, you know, but.
 - Well, we are using crypto for payments, but.
 - There you go.
 - I would say lack of user-friendly products.
 Lack of user-friendly, well, interesting.
 - Yeah.
 - Interesting.
 Okay, I'm gonna start with you Raj.
 If you're not in the crypto industry,
 what industry would you be in?
 (bell dings)
 - That's a good question.
 - I'm asking you.
 - Probably private equity.
 - Private equity, interesting.
 That's pretty web too.
 Mike, it'd be to be SaaS.
 SaaS, like your old business, here we go.
 Michael, if you're not in crypto,
 what industry would you be in?
 - It's like, I think clean tech.
 - Clean tech, yeah, interesting.
 (bell dings)
 This is a tricky one.
 If you could hold one token or crypto
 for the next 10 years, not touch it, what would you buy?
 Michael.
 - Bitcoin.
 - Bitcoin, here we go.
 Ethereum.
 Ethereum.
 Ooh.
 - Well, I can't show my own, so Ethereum.
 - Okay.
 (both laughing)
 If you could go back in history to live in any period,
 any period in history,
 which period would you wanna go live in?
 (bell dings)
 - 1500s.
 - 1500s.
 - 1500s, why?
 Interesting.
 Why is that?
 - You know, the Renaissance,
 a lot of great kingdoms at the time.
 - Yeah.
 - You know, a lot of the history was built up.
 - Very exciting period, you're right, Mike.
 - I think 1980s America.
 - Why is that?
 - It's just that I feel like that was the peak.
 It was peak Americana.
 There was like a shared enemy, Russia, no, there's,
 there was like a sense of patience.
 - Well, it's not very different now,
 but it has a different story.
 Our notes, so vaster, it was just, it was, you know, that's,
 - Michael.
 - I would agree with you.
 (both laughing)
 - 1980 America.
 - Talking about Americana.
 Go ahead, go ahead, Michael.
 - No, because I was like actually in Russia,
 they were good at that.
 (both laughing)
 - Here we go.
 (both laughing)
 Michael, you mentioned Americana,
 I mentioned the U.S. elections.
 The new U.S. president in November gives you call.
 Makes you crypto advisor.
 What's the first thing you tell them to do?
 I'll start with you, Michael.
 (bell dings)
 - Stablecoin bill.
 - Stablecoin bill, here we go.
 Mike, shut down the SCC.
 (both laughing)
 Shut down the SCC, Raj.
 - Stablecoin bill.
 - Stablecoin bill, yeah.
 I mean, it's very interesting on that side.
 If you could have lunch, sorry,
 if you could launch a new crypto startup,
 not the one you have, a new crypto startup,
 and you can choose any existing crypto CEO,
 entrepreneur, who would you choose as your co-founder?
 Raj. (bell dings)
 You launch a new crypto business,
 you can choose any crypto CEO, entrepreneur,
 who you choose as your co-founder.
 - Vitalik.
 - Vitalik Betera, and here you go.
 I heard he can sing it out as well,
 which is interesting.
 Mike.
 - Stanny.
 - Stanny, Avi.
 Okay, here we go, of course.
 Michael.
 - Raj.
 (both laughing)
 - Here we go, man, a new company being formed here
 on the ground.
 Another interesting one, I'm starting with you, Michael.
 Elon Musk gives you call and asks you for one piece
 of advice on how to make X Twitter better.
 What do you tell him?
 (bell dings)
 - Wow.
 (laughs)
 I don't know, decentralized.
 - Decentralized, okay?
 Stop the bots with the spam, stop the bots.
 - Yeah.
 - Big one.
 - Less censorship.
 - Less censorship, wow, interesting.
 And to finish it off, guys, at token 24 and nine,
 on the panel of Crypto the Masters,
 my favorite question of all time,
 I'm gonna start with you, Raj.
 Raj, if you could have lunch or dinner
 with one person dead or alive.
 Lunch or dinner with one person dead or alive,
 who would it be?
 - Michael.
 - Michael, here we go.
 Man, the business is flourishing there, huh?
 - Dead or alive.
 (laughs)
 - You go, Mike, who do you have lunch or dinner with?
 - Richard Feynman.
 - Richard Feynman, well, interesting.
 (bell dings)
 - That's a good one, yeah.
 - To finish it off, to at who could have lunch
 or dinner one person, who would it be?
 - I'll take Thomas Edison.
 - Edison, why is that?
 - I mean, it's like, you know,
 one of the biggest investors and entrepreneurs combined.
 - Of course.
 - Here we go.
 On that note of investors, guys, thank you very much.
 It was great being with you guys.
 We're right on time, big head of applause for a panel,
 and it's back to you, Mr. Work.
 (upbeat music)
