TITLE: The Future of Money: Why Crypto VC Is Betting Big on Stablecoins and DeFi
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fX5BsRXc6fk
VIDEO_ID: fX5BsRXc6fk

TRANSCRIPT:
>> Charlie, I want to start by asking you, I know you guys just launched a new fund.
 What are the sectors you guys are focused on for the next 12 to 36 months that you find
 are very exciting and we're just good at symmetrical risk, not risk upside potentially from those
 sectors? >> Yeah, great to be with you, Henry. We recently closed on a $136 million fund for,
 and with this fund, there's a few core theses who are focused on one being stable coins and
 payments. We see the global payment rails being re-architected in real time, leveraging stable
 points and blockchains. In addition to that, we're focusing on the merger of the decentralized
 finance space as well as traditional finance, whether that's tokenization of existing equity
 assets such as stocks or new primitives that allow for neo banks earning yield via platforms
 like Athena. >> So let me start with the first topic, stablecoins and move on to DFI afterwards.
 When it comes to stablecoins, let's say for investors who are looking to get exposure. Yeah,
 they can go and buy the circle stock as a way to get exposure, but then the ecosystem is growing
 quite a bit. Do you believe there's still upside left with other new players coming in
 or you believe there'll be two three leaders in the broader stablecoin-ishor ecosystem,
 or you guys are more focused on the enablers and the firms around the broader stablecoin ecosystem?
 >> Yeah, it's a great question. I think at ad hoc for a US stablecoin on a mass
 issue in space, it's pretty saturated obviously with circle and tender and it's hard to compete
 there. I think there's a great opportunity to compete on localized stablecoins. For example,
 one of our portfolio companies, Mateo, is facing Columbia and has a Columbia and peso stablecoin.
 And then additionally, I see there being a big opportunity for infrastructure as a service
 where you have a company that allows brands or banks to issue a stablecoin on top of their
 underlying infrastructure. >> Interesting. Yeah, so I can definitely see a localization element
 for countries and the infrastructure as well. To what extent did there's obviously some of the
 bigger players as well, so Pfizer this world, the Robin Hoods and the list goes on and on.
 I also all made their crypto plans public or they've been in it actually for some time now.
 To what extent do you believe the big chunk of that pie could be captured by them compared to
 some of the other, let's say, infrastructure players and others are coming in the market?
 >> Yeah, I think ultimately distribution is king, especially when you're talking about a
 retail populace. So I think the incumbents like Robin Hood and so far, once they kind of roll
 out their different crypto platforms, have kind of a leg up there. I mean, you can see it with
 Robin Hood in their partnership with Calcium prediction markets, right? I think 80% of Calcium
 comes via Robin Hood because they have such wide distribution. And I think the same thing will be
 said for if they roll out different type of DeFi products, whoever's integrated with Robin Hood
 will have some pretty quick adoption just given their distribution. >> And then moving on to DeFi,
 so obviously the DeFi, the total value lock has been growing in the DeFi world and there's more
 more interest as well. Any particular verticals within the DeFi ecosystem, you're quite optimistic.
 We often hear people just going to go buy a hype and that's their DeFi exposure, Rave.
 How do you see that evolving on the DeFi side? >> Yeah, I think there's a couple of elements,
 right? Obviously, over the last several months, you've seen a pretty big adoption of perpetual
 DEXs. I think those will continue to grow especially as they incorporate traditional assets. I think
 perps are kind of a net new instrument that's enabled by DeFi. In addition to that, I think you
 see additional growth via new capital coming into the space where DeFi is really abstracted
 from the end-user, right? So if I have standpoint deposits on Robin Hood or Coinbase or some other
 platform, and Coinbase does this quite well where they allow you to kind of seamlessly integrate
 and tap into different DeFi protocols such as the Bitcoin lending with Morpho and Coinbase.
 >> And Charlie, when obviously you guys just close a new fund and when you're pitching to investors,
 many of them have the option to go. Let's say if they want some DeFi exposure, buy some tokens
 of the DeFi firms that are quite corrupt there and they're available. What is the upside or the edge
 of coming in via VC fund, especially concerning the lockups that are in place and which that
 could be of potential downside? >> Yeah, it's a great question. I think the benefit of investing
 in a venture fund versus trying to pick liquid is the crypto space is rapidly evolving, right?
 Even over the last five years, the amount of DeFi protocols that have popped up and also faded
 is tremendous. And every day there's something, some new primitive or some new kind of approach
 to things. So having a team that's kind of fully dedicated, that's located globally and can kind
 of really spend their full time diligently on these opportunities, I think is extremely valuable.
 And also being early, I think, for most people by the time a DeFi protocol or token comes across
 their radar, it's much later in the growth cycle once it's de-risk. But that's also kind of limits
 your upside. >> Yeah, I guess that's the benefit of getting the asymmetrical upside as well.
 You need to lock up. One last question, Charlie, when it comes to bringing back to stable coins,
 you mentioned you see upside and localized issuances like the Colombian example you gave,
 but also the infrastructure players around that. To what extent do you believe we'll see kind of a
 debate between stable coins and tokenized deposits, the likes that JP Morgan and other banks are
 trying to put forward? When they're tokenizing bank deposits, do you believe these two will coexist
 completely independently from each other? They'll be just confusion or stable coins will win that
 battle of the asset that is actually being used and traded and used on a day-to-day basis?
 >> Yeah, I think in general, in like a broad use case, stable coins will win that. I think
 tokenized deposits, this is like the JPM coin have their use case, but it's mainly for kind of
 internal JPM use cases. I think you'll see other banks will be probably reluctant to kind of accept
 that JPM coin, so you'll see kind of stable coins be that intermediary and kind of be the broad-based
 kind of accepted digital currency. >> And one last question, Charlie, in 30 seconds,
 like what is the biggest risk you're thinking from your perspective we're facing? There's a number
 of catalysts from regulatory clarity and trim institutional players, but what is the one risk
 that is keeping you up at night when you're looking at the broader ecosystem over the next
 couple months? >> Yeah, that's a good question. I will say, I think in the five years that have
 been at CMT today, I've never been more excited than I am now. I think the biggest risk is just
 complacency and kind of people in the crypto space just being like, okay, we've made it.
 We're going to kind of pull back on innovating and pushing the pedal forward, but I have yet to
 see that, I think, at any point in time, these are some of the best founders that we're backing
 in or deal with should see in the current state. >> Complacency and crypto don't often go well
 together, but very, very exciting. Thanks, Charlie, for joining us today. That was Charlie Sandward,
 a general partner at CMD Digital, joining us from London.
