TITLE: The Future of Money: Why is Ripple launching their own stablecoin?
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DnNylGUlMh0
VIDEO_ID: DnNylGUlMh0

TRANSCRIPT:
When we decided to launch a ripple dollar stablecoin, we saw two things. One, which is the reality
 that the stablecoin market is big and it's getting bigger and bigger. So from a few hundred billion
 dollars today to growing to three to four or five trillion, depending on what forecast you look at
 dollars in market cap over the next few years. And that's because I think the world is really
 embracing and realizing the use cases for stablecoins beyond just speculative crypto asset trading.
 The second reality is that stablecoins have been essential to our payments business.
 So to use blockchains to make cross-border payments a lot faster and lower costs,
 we've been using stablecoins for a while now. And so the more ownership we can take of our
 product suite, the better. I think there's two long poles to making stablecoin payments,
 the norm or to make them really explode and growth globally. One is connecting blockchains to domestic
 systems. And that's been the hard work of Ripple over the past several years is building the network
 itself. And you know, there can be many different ways to achieve that through different strategies.
 But the second key thing is liquidity. So you think about FX markets in 2024. There was two
 upwards of $200 trillion in FX volumes. But in stablecoin volumes, it was like $25 trillion,
 mostly through speculative trading. So the next challenge that we have as an industry is to now
 create the breadth and depth of liquidity for stablecoins across key currency pairs like
 AED and others. Ripple owns many XRP tokens. We also staff a team of core ledger developers who
 are always continuously working on innovating with the ledger. So I think one, we have always been
 working in service to build use cases that make use of the attributes of the XRP ledger. So that's
 why we've been focused on payments from the beginning, as there's always kind of built for payments.
 And yeah, I think that having the competencies in house between blockchain development as well as
 the commercial teams building the solutions on top of it has been beneficial.
 Are your children prepared for the future of money? Order decoding crypto with Henry and
 Hodler, the number one new release kid's book on Amazon.
