TITLE: The Future of Money: Why the Asia-Middle East corridor could be the next big opportunity and how stablecoins reshape it
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXjXs5taNSk
VIDEO_ID: bXjXs5taNSk

TRANSCRIPT:
Ben, we often talk about the flows that we're seeing between Asia and the Middle East when
 it comes to crypto. Can you share more what kind of activity you're seeing between these
 two regions when it comes to crypto flows? Yeah, no, it's very exciting, right? I think
 there's always been a huge amount of trade flows between Asia and the Middle East, right? Whether
 it's goods and services, whether it's capital. I think what's been really exciting for us as a
 multinational regulated digital asset company is to see how there's more and more flow going
 between Asia and the Middle East on the crypto corridors. I mean, this is what we call right now
 kind of the institutional crypto corridor. So what you have is over the last, you know,
 over the last few years, is you've seen a huge amount of increase in demand of companies who
 want to set up in both those traditional companies, right? Traditional companies that want to set
 up on both sides of Asia and the Middle East. And what we're seeing is over the last few years as,
 you know, stablecoins have grown and grown in popularity for B2B payments. As you see,
 more and more interest in traditional companies, traditional corporates, having exposure to stable
 coins, using stablecoins in businesses. And in this case, you need to have regulated gateways,
 you know, on the crypto side, regulated gateways on both sides of these regions.
 So that's actually one of the reasons why, you know, hash key last year decided to set up
 regulated operations in Dubai, specifically to kind of coexist with its regulated operations
 in Hong Kong. And be able to have, I guess, the off ramps from that perspective. But yeah,
 what exactly? So much you mentioned on the stablecoins. And I think you're right, there's a lot of
 flows that we're seeing globally on stablecoins between B2B businesses, in particular with your
 vantage point in Asia. What's your view on the CNY stablecoin? You believe that that will be a
 stablecoin will see more and more over the next couple of months? It's really interesting. I mean,
 this is something, again, something we think a lot about, which is you have, you know, Hong Kong,
 in my belief, I've been there for the last seven and a half years prior to that, I was, you know,
 doing my masters at Stanford. But it's been really interesting to see how that region has kind of
 grown and built the regulatory framework around crypto. So if you would have noticed,
 probably a few months ago, the stablecoin bill in Hong Kong was passed. So now it's live and active.
 So that's why you've started to see a lot of interest in that market around different types
 of currency stablecoins. I think on Hong Kong dollar, US dollar, CNY, I think the jury's still
 out on which of those will kind of be first to market, which will be, you know, which will kind
 of increase in adoption. But there's a lot of interest in that market right now, a lot of really
 interested in Hong Kong around, you know, how might you build additional new models, you know,
 different types of business models around stablecoins in that region. It might be, it might be based on,
 you know, existing dollar stablecoins, or it might be based on other currency stablecoins.
 Do you believe we will see Hong Kong have a revival of its crypto clout that it has a couple
 years ago? Do you believe that there's going to be another revival of the Hong Kong crypto ecosystem?
 Yeah, I think this is a very, it's a very special topic, right? Because if you look through the
 history of all these various different, you know, crypto regulations, 2018, 2019 was kind of the
 golden era of the first, you know, the first versions of crypto regulation framework. So I think
 here in Dubai, I think over the last, you know, two to three years, you've really seen an explosion
 of growth in the ecosystem here around what you see out of ARRA, what's, you know, ADGM last year,
 at the end of last year, you know, made some changes to its framework. So there's a lot of,
 a lot of good frameworks globally. I think what I really like about the Hong Kong regulatory
 framework is I think it's really enabled the, what I call kind of the growth of financial grade
 crypto in Hong Kong. And that's something that we're very hash-kis an organization,
 something we've been very involved in and very vested in. And what I mean by a financial grade
 crypto and why I think, you know, Hong Kong has this good model, this good institutional model is
 the adoption or the usage of crypto or the, you know, the building of different platforms in
 crypto in Hong Kong is actually across various different verticals of financial services.
 So it's not only that the trading platforms are there, but you have the securities brokers
 in Hong Kong who are providing, you know, trading of crypto assets to their end customers using
 hash-kis infrastructure. You have asset managers in Hong Kong that are actively developing ETFs
 who are actively allowing some of these crypto ETFs like ETH to, you know, to participate in
 staking, right? So you have the asset management leg and then you also have the banks as well.
 So the banks in Hong Kong not only are some of the digital banks providing crypto asset trading
 in their apps, but the banks are also actively opening up, you know, operating accounts or client
 money accounts for, for the regulated players, right? So you have this, you know, what I call
 financial grade crypto is the regulatory framework there is enabling all these different verticals
 of financial services to participate in the crypto economy. So to focus on this financial
 grade crypto you're referring to, Ben, you mentioned the banks, the brokers, the asset managers,
 what do you think is the catalyst? Because obviously there's a lot of jurisdictions
 that have been trying to get these three legs of this stool together to work. The banks have
 been a challenge forever. Is it regulation or is it demand from clients or is it policy
 a push? What do you see in Hong Kong and Asia has been the catalyst for this? I think it's,
 I think it's all the above, right? I think Hong Kong traditionally has been a, you know, an equity
 trading hub, right? So you have a huge amount of traders, right? So this, you know, if you look at
 Asia as a whole, right, all these different cities, all these different international
 financial centers, Hong Kong traditionally has always been very, very strong in trading, right?
 So that, and you know, if you look at crypto as an asset class, generally it's been, you know,
 there's different, there's different types, right? There's different, there's different types of
 exposure, you know, there's passive exposure, there's active exposure, but crypto as an asset
 class generally is a little bit more kind of risk on and a little bit more speculative.
 So you've seen a lot of that interest in Asia kind of growing around that. So I think to your
 question, I think it is the, it is the regulatory framework. It is local, local client demand,
 just diving in there a little bit into the regulatory framework. I think what's been really
 good in that market in enabling the securities brokers to actually get involved and offer the
 trading of this asset class to their end users is the fact that the regulatory framework in Hong Kong
 has a lot of clarity on how these brokers can, you know, need to link up to licensed and
 regulated trading platforms in order to actually offer that, you know, that asset there to their
 end users. And I think what's been really good in Hong Kong is the fact that the regulator is
 requiring that some of the, some of the trading from those securities brokers are linking up to
 the existing regulated players so that the order book and the orders are all coming from kind of
 a clean trading venue. Interesting. I just want to focus on the type of clients you're seeing
 that are using this corridor right now. You mentioned that leveraging this financial
 grade infrastructure to do this like cross-border business. Sure. What are the type of clients
 you're seeing that are using stablecoins, using these off-ramps and actually using infrastructure
 that you have. I think you see, I mean, this is, it's, it's going to seem straightforward,
 but I think you, you still see to this day, you still see continued interest from Asia
 in investing into, into the UAE, right? Whether it's property, whether it's real estate, whatever.
 So it's retail corporates. So I think you see, I think you see a blend of two types. So if you
 look at the retail, the retail individual side of things is you definitely still see a lot of demand
 for folks to, you know, come into Dubai, come into the UAE and buy property. And I think there's
 still been, I think given what you've seen recently in Dubai around real estate tokenization, I still
 think there's, there's continuing ways to innovate and make the process of buying property easier for
 people, whether it's cross-border payments, whether it's, you know, there's a lot of pain points in
 that, in that process that, you know, stablecoin payments can, can help resolve, right? So you have
 the kind of the individual leg. I think on the corporate leg as well is, again, there's a lot
 of corporates worldwide, right? This is not just limited to the Asia, Middle East corridor,
 but there's been an explosion in B2B payments using stablecoins over the last, you know, over the last
 year or so. And while Hashi is not, I mean, Hashi is not a, you know, it's not, it's not a payments
 company. But what you do have, is you do have companies on both sides that want to be using stable
 coins in their business. And if a company has operations in multiple different regions,
 and they need to make local payments in one region, and they need to make local payments in a different
 region in a different currency, it's helpful to some of those companies to have, you know, accounts
 on both sides of the corridor. Ben, I want to focus now on what are you seeing at the rest of Asia?
 We covered Hong Kong. What are you seeing in the rest of Asia in particular China as well?
 Yeah, no, it's a, it's a hot topic, right? So I mean, if you split up and you got East Asia,
 you got South Asia, you got Southeast Asia. I think where we've been spending a lot of our time,
 and what we've seen a lot of traction on over the last, the last year or so, is really around
 Southeast Asia. So I think in Southeast Asia, back on this kind of this overall,
 this overall theme of B2B payments and kind of stablecoins and the institutionalization of crypto,
 you know, there's been a huge amount of demand that we've seen in East Asia to Southeast Asia
 corridor. So just give you a specific example. I think this was a few months ago, Hashki signed
 an MOU with another licensed exchange in Philippines, this coins PH, and specifically the focus of
 that was making it easier for corporates or individuals on both sides of Hong Kong and Philippines
 to have, you know, to have accounts on licensed exchanges and be able to facilitate cross borders
 remittances in a more seamless type of way. So I think what we're seeing, what we're really seeing
 in Asia right now is not only do you have in some of the international financial centers like Hong
 Kong, not only do you see kind of an explosion of trading through different types of,
 through different types of vehicles, right, whether it's ETFs, whether it's brokers,
 whether it's banks, whatever, but you're also starting to see, you know, in addition to the
 trading side of things, you're also starting to see slowly but surely the adoption of crypto
 and stablecoins more and kind of these B2B use cases. So that's really been exciting. I think
 in other, in other regions of, of Asia, you can see, I think this was, you know, a few weeks ago,
 you know, Korea is also starting to experiment with, with some of its own stablecoins. So I think
 it's really, really, you know, really interesting to see how this is going to, going to turn out
 over the next year. For all these clients you're mentioning, what is the biggest difficulty or
 challenge as a OTC broker, for example, to try to acquire these customers? Obviously, it's a very
 competitive market. There's many competitors, there's pricing pressure, I'm sure. What are you
 finding is the biggest challenge in trying to capture this new client base? Yeah, I think what's
 really, I think what's really important to us, very, very important question. What's really
 important to us as a kind of a new entrant into the MENA region through the UAE is to, you know,
 talk about what we've done in Asia and kind of how we're trying to bring this financial grade
 crypto model into, you know, into the MENA region through, through the UAE. So I think as a, you know,
 as an OTC broker and as a company that's launching or has launched a trading platform in, in Dubai
 under a var license, under a var license in, in Dubai, I think the biggest challenge we have at this
 point is really kind of explaining the story and explaining the huge amount of innovation that's
 been happening through hashkey in, you know, in Asia. So I think, you know, sometimes the story,
 you know, sometimes all the different things you can do in all these different verticals is so,
 is so, so numerous. It's hard to kind of come out with, with one or two things specifically.
 But, you know, I think in, in Dubai specifically, what's really interesting to us when we go out
 and talk to, you know, when we go out to talk to partners and we go out to talk to clients is
 explaining the, you know, kind of the massive amount of innovations happening in financial,
 financial grade crypto in Asia, in Hong Kong, and how it's going to be brought over to the meaner
 region kind of slowly, but surely. So it's a lot, you know, there's a lot, there's a lot to do.
 You mentioned before tokenization, what's review and as a firm, are you guys looking at tokenization,
 especially here in the Middle East where in Dubai, there's a lot going on, especially on the real
 state sector? Yeah, that's, that's also another exciting thing. So if you look at the, the different
 verticals of hashkey that we're going to be bringing to the meaner region through the UA,
 through our var license entities, you have the trading side of thing, which I talked a little bit
 about, you have the, you know, you have the, you know, inter interconnections into some of the banks
 and brokers, which we're also working on. You have the OTC side on the, on the asset management,
 on the tokenization side, that's something that we're also incredibly interested in,
 because in Hong Kong, we've been the number one leader in that market in token, tokenization of
 financial products, right? So right now, what's really interesting is in the, in the Hong Kong
 market, if you open up your, you know, your hashkey exchange app in that market, you can actually
 subscribe to a tokenized money market fund directly, directly in the app, right? So that's quite interesting.
 And think about, you know, think about the possibilities of that in, you know, in the UAE through,
 you know, through kind of an all-in-one app. So that's, that's interesting for us to look at.
 We've also worked on other tokenization projects there, tokenization of other kind of yield-bearing
 products that are, that are being issued by, by securities brokers. So, you know, I think a
 lot of these innovations, this is, you know, this is what I think is also one of the big,
 one of the big interesting things of the Asian Middle East crypto corridor is bringing some of
 these, you know, large players like hashkey into the Middle East through the UAE, you know,
 through, through the, you know, var license entity and kind of bringing some of these innovations
 and this idea, financial grade crypto, you know, into the market here.
 Are you surprised, Ben, that when it comes to tokenization, the products that gather the most
 traction have been money market funds, treasuries, and not real estate, like as we used to talk a
 couple of years before? Sure. I think, I think on the real estate tokenization side of things,
 I think there's, it's really interesting to think about what is it that you're tokenizing.
 And I think something that's interesting is when you tokenize, you know, a title deed,
 I think that's also, I think that's also quite, I think it's also quite innovative because
 if you think about some of the, some of the frictions and pain points traditionally
 on, you know, on-chain finance and also on-chain activities is, you know, some of the,
 some of the real world, kind of the real world assets when they're, when the transfer mechanisms
 paper-based generally makes it hard to connect the on-chain to the off-chain, right?
 So I think in real estate tokenization, what's been interesting to see is kind of the digitization
 or the tokenization of the real estate deeds, right, which make it easier to, to transfer on-chain,
 right? Absolutely. We'll talk about it later in our educational segment as well.
 But I also want to ask you about risk management overall. Obviously,
 how can it operates across multiple jurisdictions globally? You have licenses and multiple jurisdictions
 as well. What do you see when you look at the ecosystem right now, one of the biggest risks
 we are facing for the continuous growth of the crypto ecosystem? Yeah, that's a great,
 that's a great question. I still think one of the biggest risks in this market today is,
 you know, is lack of education. And I think, you know, if you talk about that from a,
 from a licensed financial institution perspective, is even today when we go out and talk to
 licensed financial institutions, sometimes it's difficult for those teams to really see the difference
 in, in an order book, right? So if you talk about a trading platform, it's really a book of orders.
 Sometimes it's still hard for the licensed financial institutions to see a difference between,
 you know, a clean order book, right? Which is, you know, an order book that's run and operated
 by a licensed exchange and order books that are run by, you know, offshore, unregulated platform.
 So even today in some markets, you still have situations where licensed regulated brokers are,
 you know, sending orders offshore, whereas it's a little bit better from a risk perspective,
 from a risk management perspective and from kind of a, you know, market integrity perspective,
 from some of those orders to be, you know, in, you know, routed to an onshore regulated platforms.
 Very, very interesting. I'm sure that's the topic we'll discuss a lot in the months and years ahead.
 That was Ben Elba, as the managing director of Hashki Mina. Thank you, Ben, for being with us today.
 Thanks, Senator.
