TITLE: AI Agents, JPM Capitulates, Stablecoin Wars and the Fed Innovation: Bits + Bips
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Kn1Tau51bM
VIDEO_ID: 0Kn1Tau51bM

TRANSCRIPT:
There is a fear that when AI starts to materially disrupt potentially have once in a generation
 interruption of white collar markets and knowledge workers, the Fed may want to get ahead of that
 labor market potential significant downturn because when the labor market turns, it turns very fast
 and very hard and it's very hard to reverse. This may be the first time the Fed's really been front
 footed on innovation, not just leading in like a great cycle, but trying to truly lead a transform
 in that system. Hello everybody and welcome to Bits and Bits, exploring how crypto and macro
 collide one basis point at a time. So I'm Austin Campbell, self-described in recovering grouchy
 fixed income trader and professor at NYU Stern. I'm your moderator for this show because to be
 honest, we drew lots, somebody has to keep Chris under control and I lost, so I have to do it.
 With me today are Chris Perkins, part of the City Crypto Mafia, President of Coinfund,
 and somebody who I can assure you has some heat on some macro topics and investing.
 We also have Ramallah Walia. Ram is the founder of Loomita Wealth and is also joining us for
 Money 2020, so took time out from partying and gambling to chat with us. Thank you, Ram.
 And then finally today our guest, Joseph Shalom, the CEO of Sharpling, NASDAQ ticker SVET,
 the former head of digital asset strategy at BlackRock for five years with an over 20-year
 career BlackRock and friend of Chris Perkins. Probably the most dangerous thing on the list that
 I've said. Today, we're going to be talking about a number of different things, including
 Fed decisions, the inflation backdrop, payments, US and China trade deal optimism,
 a bunch of stablecoin news around City, Coinbase, the first yet and stablecoin,
 JP Morgan increasing their presence in crypto, the CZ Pardon, and a new CFTC chair being named
 for optimists around here. We'll get to all of these.
 Finance is the world's number one crypto exchange,
 trusted by over 290 million users. With industry-leading liquidity, security, and a wide range of digital
 asset products, finance is the place to buy, sell, trade, and earn crypto. Download Binance
 today to get started. Mantle is pioneering, watching for banking, of revolutionary new category at
 the intersection of TradFi and Web3. Followed Mantle, underscore official, to learn more.
 So without further ado, let's get started with the Fed and inflation. So for those who are unfamiliar,
 every so often, a group called the Federal Open Market Committee meets. This is 12 people,
 seven Fed governors and presidents from regional banks across the United States.
 They're the ones who vote on interest rates. They're meeting this week. They are expected to cut
 interest rates by 25 basis points. But this is not the only thing they do. These are also the leaders
 of the Federal Reserve and have many other topics on their mind. So starting with the macro backdrop,
 we have a cooling employment market. Unemployment claims are rising. Today, the news is out that
 Amazon might be laying off up to 30,000 people per Reuters. Inflation remains above trend at 3%,
 above the 2% target, but not catastrophically so. And according to Deutsche Bank economists,
 Powell is likely to keep options open and not pre-commit to a particular action through year end.
 So starting there, Ron, let me throw it to you. What are the implications of what's going on with
 the Fed and what should we expect from the market? Sure. So first off, I would have characterized
 the backdrop differently. I'll share my screen. We'll look at initial claims. These are just
 seasonal fluctuations that happen as the economy transitions from a summer economy to a back-to-school
 economy. We've seen this last three years in a row. There's a spike in initial claims with some
 softness in the labor market. People call for the Fed to cut. And then you see unexpected economic
 strength in Q4. That's going to happen again this year, I believe. Against that backdrop,
 you have productivity growth, increasingly driven by AI levels we haven't seen since the late '90s.
 You got unemployment rate at 4.1%. Sky's not falling. We're seeing strong earnings growth again
 from the regional banks last week, the megabanks before that, and the S&P and the indices just hit
 all-time highs today at 6800. The Fed doesn't need to cut. They didn't need to cut last year as well
 and they cut last year, the tenure went out, stock markets ramped. It's okay. I'm not going to fight
 the Fed. The fact that the Fed is cutting into Goldilocks. This is Goldilocks. I think I'm the
 only one saying this is a Goldilocks economy objectively. Look at the data. People just don't
 feel like it's Goldilocks in their head. They feel bad because of headlines and geopolitical risk
 and they don't like what Trump is doing with the East Wing. But fundamentally, this is Goldilocks.
 So when that happens, though, you should be owning risk assets. And so the good initial claims,
 this is initial claims. You can see there's some noisiness around the data.
 Don't forget data series like the non-farm payrolls, which was supposed to come out the first
 Friday of the month, which didn't because there's a shutdown. It's extremely noisy. The confidence
 interval is 100,000 plus or minus. It's just noise. And the most valuable, reliable data subject to
 audit is company earnings data. Company earnings data. And every week during earnings season,
 my team and I go through the companies that report to the day and we compile highlights in our
 newsletter, you don't see weakness. You don't see weakness. There's company-specific weakness,
 okay, Tesla missed on reward. That's an idiosyncratic, but credit is good. Economy's fine. Earnings
 is good. CapEx is strong. So that's the story. This is Goldilocks.
 I would take the other side of that in that you saw Fed Reserve Governor Chris Walker in July,
 dissent and focus on the fact that, yes, looking backwards, the labor markets have been actually
 really robust and resilient. The American economy is consumer driven, but there's a fear that when
 AI starts to materially disrupt, potentially have once in a generation interruption of white
 collar markets and knowledge workers, the Fed may want to get ahead of that labor market
 potential significant downturn, because when the labor market turns, it turns very fast
 and very hard and it's very hard to reverse. I think over the last period, as long as we've
 remembered, the Fed has prioritized price stability, obviously their primary concern,
 and they've been very, very hawkish, but the labor market is coming to a moment that matters.
 And anecdotally, lots of companies are slowing down hiring. And anecdotally,
 lots of people I know with really, really good educational backgrounds, graduating top universities
 are having a very hard time finding white collar jobs. And I would bet that they're more worried
 about that hard shift on labor and the dislocation coming from AI. That is just harder to reverse.
 So while you look backwards, it's been Goldilocks, you can make an argument,
 there's a labor demand cliff coming.
 I don't know, from my perspective, I was just checking out a poly market and now I can access
 it on the world app for the first time, which is pretty cool. We're investors and world not in
 poly market, but poly markets make it clear that the rates are coming down. And I think we know
 that that's absolutely going to happen. This is a government that's very focused on expanding
 our GDP, both real and nominal. And there will do whatever it takes to do so. They're also looking
 to put assets in the hands of retail, like they opened up Trump opened up this retail account for
 for kids that are born down. And we're trying to make sure that they're sharing in those assets.
 So that's what this that's what this government's thinking about. I had the opportunity to go to
 the payments conference at the Federal Reserve last week. And I couldn't believe what I heard.
 Started with Chris Waller, Governor Chris Waller, who I have an incredible amount of respect for,
 got up on the stage. And he's like, everybody, it's time to embrace the disruption. And like,
 to hear that coming out of a Fed governor, who is positioned potentially to be the chair,
 and I'd be thrilled if he is, is nuts. He talked about opening a skinny account. And what is this
 Fed trying to do? They're trying to make sure that we lead, that we innovate stable coins are
 everywhere. I sat next to him at a private lunch. And he's just like, you know, I recognize the
 opportunity to do stable coins four years ago. No one was listening to me at the time. But now
 they're listening, and we're going to be all in on this. And so you have an entire government
 that's focusing on growing the pie, growing the GDP. I don't know if they're going to be successful
 or not. It feels like we're in a very good, good macro environment for asset prices, particularly
 in crypto going into the end of the year, because of the risking and the stimulus that they're looking
 to inject. I mean, I'll go a step further than Ram and jokingly call this the check market,
 which is to say, you kind of take whatever you want from the picture that's being painted right now.
 If you feel like there's room to cut, it's because of the employment story that Joseph just told,
 and fears of disruption in this market due to AI displacing many forms of labor,
 and also maybe some of the impact around geopolitics. Like certainly, there's a narrative there.
 If you want to be hawkish, you've got labor or I'm sorry, inflation sort of above trends,
 and you're looking at that and saying, wait, wait, wait, we need to be concerned with that one.
 I think we need to be hiking. And so one of the things that I would expect is that it's going to
 take a dislocation in one of those two things to cause anybody currently at the Fed to change their
 mind as for where they currently hold it. So I think the current path of cutting will continue,
 because the votes seem to be there for that. Ram, I agree with you. That's very good for risk
 assets right now in the current backdrop. But to me, the thing we're watching for to change this path
 is does unemployment really crank up because that would be a sign that many of the hawks are going
 to flip? Or does inflation really crank up, which would be a sign that many of the doves are going
 to flip? But in the current state, I think we're just kind of living where we are. The thing to me
 that's new is out of the Fed, and I'm going to pile on with Chris here. I was at the Chicago Federal
 Reserve payments symposium a little bit back in the number one and number two topics of a symposium
 that historically has been around instant payments were stablecoins and AI. Right, we were looking at
 a full scale modernization, not just of US banking rails, but an acknowledgement that the line between
 retail payments, business to business payments, settlement and global money transfers now blurring.
 And at the same time, a lot of both optimism and concerns about what AI is going to do. There was
 one presentation that was on screen that only afterwards was revealed that no, that was entirely
 fake. This was completely AI generated. And even though the real person it was based on is sitting
 right there and it looks identical, none of that was real. So there are a lot of questions around,
 how are we going to handle these things? I think, and Ram and Joseph, I'd be curious to hear your
 view, this may be the first time the feds really been front footed on innovation, not just leading
 in like a rate cycle, but trying to truly lead a transform in that system. I 100% agree. I've
 never seen in my life a regulatory climate that's been this permissive and this constructive that
 Governor Waller took Chris's point, that Governor Bowman about a month or two ago, SEC Chair Paul
 Atkins. And you've got also, of course, the best leading the charge here. This is extraordinary.
 And this is a bigger deal than Glass-Steagall. I was trying to think back in history, like when's
 the last time we saw something? This is a bigger deal than Glass-Steagall. And then before Glass-Steagall,
 you have to go back that decade. It's actually been more regulation, not less since then. So I
 agree. I'm not worried about this labor market dislocation. You know, labor markets clear in a
 competitive free market, open economy. And labor becomes more productive with AI. We're seeing that
 in measured higher productivity growth. And employers are going to hoard labor. They don't cut when
 their earnings are going up. They can actually make more money with talent when commingling that
 talent with labor. So this is a good story. Labor growth is slowing down because you have less
 immigration. That's it. So the supply of labor is going down. Therefore, you'll see job creation
 come in at a more measured pace. That's a normal thing. All right. So moving on to our next topic,
 to get to global money flows and modernization, the world's first yen stablecoin launches in Japan.
 So JPYC became the first fully backed stablecoin denominated in yen, it's backed by JGPs and
 domestic savings. The stated goal there is to issue 10 trillion yen, so roughly 66 billion
 in current numbers over three years. No transaction fees initially monetizing via the interest on
 the reserves. All three of Japan's mega banks appear to be jointly involved in the launch.
 The bank of Japan is saying stablecoins could partially replace bank deposits and global payments
 on the back of this. But there, to be honest, is uncertainty around domestic adoption. Global use
 is definitely targeted for trade flows. And also, I want to say in particular, congratulations to
 Naoto San and the JFSAs, well, as you sheet us on in the previous team, there are many people there
 who have been working on clearing the path for this for a long time. As Ram said earlier,
 it's a remarkable regulatory environment as we've turned the corner here. So I want to start with
 Joseph, I believe you have some views here. What do you think the impact of this is going to be?
 It's interesting. If you take a look back six months, the narrative coming from Washington and
 globally was the US was at risk of potentially losing its reserve dollar status. You had China
 and others threatening not to buy US treasuries. So clearly, Secretary Bessent, the Trump administration
 believed that US dominance in crypto markets, US dominance in tokenized assets, if backed by
 US-denominated stablecoins, is a double positive. One is you'll have more and more of the world's
 financial transactions, not just global trade, denominated in stablecoins like Tether, USDC,
 and others that are overwhelmingly USD-based. But second, people forget every single stablecoin
 needs to be backed by a US treasury. And if you look at the likes of Tether and Circle,
 I think collectively they're a top 15 creditor of the US government. So if you can believe that the
 world is tokenizing all financial assets, they're going to be paid for and transacted in stablecoins,
 which are USD-denominated. And that creates massive demand for US treasuries. This is a win-win win
 for the US. It's a win for Washington. And I just spent three weeks in Asia and the UK. And there's
 real fear that these local currencies are going to lose their vaulted status. So I'm not surprised
 that Japan is doing this. I am surprised that Europe and the UK seems to be very, very far behind
 in solving this. But smart move by the Japanese government. And I think there's enough global
 trade and enough intra-company trade in Japan to support this, what you call a $60 to $100 billion
 stablecoin effort. And I do think it'll be successful. I just think the US-dominated
 stablecoins are going to actually bring the US dollar back to strong reserve status in global
 financial services. So this is a win for Washington. And you're going to see others
 trying to chip away and preserve their own reserve status.
 I'll chime in. Joseph, I agree with you. I think that stablecoins are good. We've talked about this
 before. Really extend US dollar reach. It's pretty ironic. When I was in Wall Street and I was running
 derivatives businesses, Yen used to scare the bejesus out of me because I was un-collateralized for so
 long. I have to wait for the stuff to come in and settle. And I was like, gosh, if I can settle this
 stuff quick, where is the Yen stablecoin? Because that is going to give me the most utility of anything.
 Because I would pay out, I'd be waiting, waiting, waiting, because my client, of course, would make
 me just take that risk. And I hated that risk. So with stablecoins, that goes away. We call that
 risk in Wall Street, we call it herstat risk. And the reason why we call it herstat risk is because in
 1974, there was this German bank called herstat. And it blew up because it paid out and it didn't
 receive and it went bankrupt. And it's ironic because after that, the BIS, which sets global
 capital rules for banks, they set up BCBS, which helped address that issue. And what the irony is,
 is that you have the BIS now that's been really anti-stablecoins. Even though these stablecoins
 are literally going to solve the problem that brought them into existence, we're going to
 eliminate settlement risk. So I'm excited about that. I'm even more excited about the FX markets.
 FX is a $7.5 trillion a day market. You can't trade FX if you only have dollars.
 This gets me super excited. I want to see that type of real-time trading. I think it's going to
 be great for the economy. It's going to be great for the Japanese. Look, Joseph, you're also right,
 the Europeans are behind. Why are they behind? I think it's because of the way they calibrated
 the regulatory capital. If you have to reserve 2% or 3% for every single euro and you're only
 making 2% or 3% on that float, it's really hard to scale. I think that that jurisdiction is going
 to have to figure it out pretty quick. Otherwise, they're going to be left behind.
 If you think, Chris, that the stablecoin market replaces or disrupts the FX market,
 like, did these converge? I thought it was a great plot on Chris.
 Yeah, of course. We talked about this, I think, in the past, where let's just talk
 about the equity markets. I have a choice. Do I buy an equity as I do today or do I buy a tokenized
 equity? If I'm a fiduciary, I have to buy the tokenized equity assuming liquidity stays the same.
 Why? Because if something happens on a Saturday and there's a risk issue, I have to manage my risk.
 How do I settle them? I settle that in stablecoins. All things being equal, the tokenized product
 is a better product. FX, the same. Do I want to have an FX product that settles T plus 2 or do I
 want to have an excess FX product that settles real time? If I'm a fiduciary, what do I want?
 It's just a better product. Again, I used to run the largest FXPB in the world. I was managing
 that, her stat risk, and people say, "Oh, CLS, we solved everything. CLs handle doesn't handle every
 current. Austin's shaking his head. I want to hear his take." But these innovations drive better
 markets. I'm sure the CEO of Sharapalik is going to talk about where much of that, many of those
 stablecoins live today. It's a better market. It's a better system. The fact that some regulators
 are pushing back, especially the guys sitting in their ivory tower, the BIS, saying this is
 going to be a problem, I think they have to get back to first principles. Stop trying to defend
 create modes, move forward, and understand the risk mitigation that you achieve through stables.
 Yeah, I was shaking my head about CLS because CLS, although useful, is a very limited-purpose
 entity. Chris, you and I have both been derivatives traders. There are many forms of settlement that
 need to happen, some of which are 24/7 across global venues, potentially in different currencies,
 where CLS is at best a very small part of what's going on. And to your point about everything being
 on chain and preferring the tokenized version, if I could have, call it a 24/7 global Omniledger,
 Joseph, if you know one of those, let us know, where I could put everything on it and then be able
 to transact. I'm going to be able to do things like clear our global interest rate derivative framework,
 24/7, eliminate the double-margining problem. These are very real structural financial improvements.
 And to pile on with what Joseph was saying, one, I do think this is a huge win for the dollar.
 Dollar stablecoins are the leader as more things move on chain that reinforces their power.
 But I would also say I think it's going to be a big win for anybody who's a fast follower.
 So I think Japan has done something very smart here. You want to get into this game.
 You want your currency to be used for things like trade settlement. You want it to be used on
 chain is collateral. You want to start building those reps early. And to their credit, the JFSA has
 been early to a lot of things in crypto. Like I will remind people they were one of the best at
 regulating exchanges. So FTX Japan is one of the few entities that survived. So there is a track
 record here, but moving early is going to matter. If I was a smaller country with limited state
 capacity, had no intentions to do a stablecoin, I would be existentially worried even about the
 continued existence of my currency right now. Yeah. And I think it goes beyond currency.
 People forget that most assets today trade on a venue specific basis. Like if your stock is listed
 on NASDAQ, you're trading on NASDAQ. If you're on Deutsche Bors, you're trading on Deutsche Bors,
 when you end up getting a global settlement layer that's decentralized and I'll pause it,
 I'm an ETH and tokenization maxi. That's been at REAP, real repercussions on global capital markets
 in Europe and the UK and areas that are already struggling to list innovative companies and retain
 innovative companies. And when you start getting that decentralized settlement layer,
 where pretty much anything can trade with anything programmatically, composably across borders,
 and I know there's a lot of regulatory hurdles, I think it's going to wreak havoc on those
 secondary and tertiary markets who've relied on the venue moat to keep capital markets in their
 jurisdictions and in their native currencies. And I think Europe and the UK will be the biggest
 losers in this regard. This also makes like tokens like Ethereum, Solana, the layer ones where
 these assets live, very strategic suddenly. If you have trillions of dollars of stable coins
 living on Ethereum or layer one of your choice, how can you not as a government have an arsenal
 in that? What commodity is more strategic? I guess oil is very strategic for sure,
 but this becomes a core important strategic commodity that you have to have.
 On that note, we do have to flip to an ad, but then we're going to come back and argue more
 about stablecoins. Finance is the world's number one crypto exchange, trusted by over 290 million
 users globally. With world-class liquidity, security, and a wide portfolio of digital asset
 products, finance makes crypto easy for everyone. Whether you're new to crypto or a professional,
 finance offers a simple user experience. Learn with Finance Academy, browse hundreds of tokens,
 and track your portfolio on an easy-to-use dashboard. For experienced users, Binance Pro
 provides industry-leading services and bespoke trading products. With some of the lowest fees
 and deepest liquidity in the market, it's no wonder over 290 million users choose Binance
 for everything crypto. Buy, sell, trade, earn, live crypto. Download Binance today and begin
 your journey into the future of finance. Disclaimer, Binance is not available in certain countries,
 including the US, check its terms for more information. Binance.com/en/terms.
 Mantle leads the establishment of blockchain for banking as the next frontier.
 UR is the access layer that transforms Mantle Network into a purpose-built vertical platform,
 the blockchain for banking that enables financial services on-chain. UR unifies
 and vertically aligns Mantle's focus on payments, trading, and assets. MI4, M8 protocol,
 functions of BTC, supported by developer grants, ecosystem incentives, and the industry-leading
 distribution platform through the UR app, rewards station, and buy-bit launch poll.
 All economic activity within UR will be captured by Mantle Network to further
 drive value to token holders and establish its significance in blockchain for banking.
 Follow Mantle, underscore official, to learn more. So, let's keep talking about stablecoins.
 Chris, our former employer, Citi, has announced that they're partnering with Coinbase to test
 stablecoins for cross-border payments for corporate clients. The goal there being to simplify crypto
 to fiat conversions to speed up settlement times and targeting what they said was 24/7
 institutional demand for programmable payments. What impact do you think it's going to have
 that the big banks are now getting into this game? I'm happy for my old colleagues at Citi to
 be leaning forward. If you know anything about Citi, the Crown Jewel is something called TTS.
 It's a treasury trade system. I'll murder it. But it's the payments business of the world.
 They pay DOD. They pay the world. And when you become a managing director there, they'll pull
 you aside and say, "It's the network. It's the network. We've been here for hundreds of years
 because it's the network." And the network they refer to in their moat is the correspondent banking
 system. I'm really happy that they're now leaning forward and saying, "Well, wait a second. We need
 to be able to settle and pay in real time using this new technology." I wish them all a luck.
 But there's also this other debate going on. And this was at the Fed. And this is the debate
 around tokenized bank deposits. And a lot of banks are like, "No, no, no, no. Tokenized bank
 deposits are better. They pay yields. We're all about tokenized bank deposits." And Mike,
 I've been trying to get my head around this thing. I don't understand it. I don't understand the
 utility. I understand money markets. I understand stablecoins. These tokenized bank deposits. I was
 literally sitting next to Waller at lunch. Governor Waller, I'm like, explained. And I guess the
 consensus at the Fed payments center was like, "This is going to be an internal tool for the
 banks to move assets through their ecosystem. Maybe that's it. But I'm still struggling with
 that one personally. I wish I was a little smarter on that subject." But look, great news for city
 congrats to them. And it's again, it's a better product. You don't have a choice. So good luck.
 I think it is. I'll show you some trust with JP Morgan, who've really been leaning into those
 bank deposits. And Chris, they don't pay interest. And it might be that JP Morgan has a big enough
 old garden. One of the largest bank, they believe crossing and moving across accounts and netting
 with tokenized deposits is better for them in the long run. City, obviously, is going in a
 different strategic direction. I think a more forward direction. So I do think it's worth contrasting
 with what you've seen at JP Morgan to date. Barram, I think I might have interrupted you.
 No, no. I think that was great. Briefly, a city invested in BVNK, which is a striped competitor,
 focused on merchant acquiring. That was a very thoughtful move. They partnered with Coinbase
 on this. So the incumbents are responding swiftly. The CEO talked about the stable
 clinician on the earnings call. This is a CEO led objective. I wouldn't underestimate City Bank
 around this as much as I'd love to see them disrupted. Actually, in Long City have been for a while
 around this. And I think Austin, I think you and I spoke around this a few months ago.
 You thought that some of the big banks would have a natural advantage here. I think that's true.
 We'd love to get your take on this. I think
 one, the banks are going to be forced to evolve. As Chris said, it's just a better product. Take
 international wires, which are kind of a broken space right now. I have T plus five and huge fees
 versus a couple of seconds to send Chris or Joseph or Ram money on chain. The just commercial weight
 of that improvement will drag the banks along, ticking and screaming, or they'll die. This is
 a sort of like the internet hits book selling moment for payments in that regard. Now on the form
 factor, I've been a little bit of a skeptic around tokenized deposits being the ultimate settlement
 thing, because I think we kind of got to bank deposits being used for payments at scale accidentally.
 Right. If you rewind to like the 1970s, the majority of payments being made were made cash.
 And cards were only starting to come onto the scene. Like banks were not integral to buying coffee.
 And as a result, I think they've sort of stumbled into a digital monopoly that was not deserved.
 But the problem with bank deposits is these are incredibly not fungible items. Right. Like
 maybe a little while ago, we'd feel very differently about deposits at JP Morgan versus deposits at
 Silicon Valley Bank as an example. And so when the deposits themselves are not fungible,
 because to move between banks, you're moving credit risk and balance sheet assets around,
 it does beg for a simpler solution. And you end up at sort of a least common denominator
 of acceptable, which is like a box full of T bills or overnight lending secured by Treasuries,
 which everybody will take. And so I think what we may end up as a slightly different layer cake
 in the future, which is to say banks probably should start thinking right now about taking
 well-designed stablecoins as deposits themselves. I think we've been speaking to the institutional
 and commercial side of these banks, but there's a massive generational shift where especially
 outside the US, there are more and more young people who are about to inherit tens of trillions
 of dollars from our parents and from us who are more likely, especially outside the US to have
 a crypto wallet than they are to have a deposit checking account at Citibank. And I think on the
 retail side, you're going to see money movement, almost entirely denominated in crypto to crypto
 wallet movement, instantaneous low gas fees, easy to handle. I think we've been more focused on
 this idea of commercial and institutional banking. But I think on the retail side, you're going to
 see lots of people who've never walked into a bank who may not even have an ATM. They get their
 credit relative to the collateral in their crypto wallet. And I think the crypto wallet is just
 going to end up being the form factor for how people store and move money on the retail side,
 especially outside the US and in developing countries.
 I mean, I'm going to pile in there and say I've got some students who have bank accounts
 who have never walked into a bank branch, Joseph, right? They've got so far or something like that,
 where everything was done online already. And if you ask them their personal nightmare is,
 what do you mean I have to go somewhere physically in person to do it? This is great. I've got a
 phone right here. And so I think this digital nativeness of people who grew up with the technology,
 who are used to using it, who understand it, who trust it, not say the current 75 year olds who
 are like, I don't know about this paypal thing. I can't open the phone up and take the money out
 is going to be a generational shift that forces people in this direction. I don't know if it's
 just stable coins. Like honestly, I think for retail obscuring the difference of what they're
 using and just making it easy is probably the winning play. But to your point, being interoperable
 with everything brings you there. There's a post retail demographic that's coming on the scene too.
 It's called AI agents. I'm serious. Like that's the next one after this, right? And like you just saw
 a pretty interesting release with something called x four O two standard that allows now agents to
 to pay themselves micro to my micro payment to micro payment. So like that's the other part
 of this economy that we haven't even we're barely touching the surface. And there's innovations
 every single day. But I imagine in some point in our lifetimes, those micro payments are going to
 probably outpace the human ones that we're talking about. Yeah, Chris, I'm going to geek out here
 for your audience, which is read erc 8004, this idea of trusted trustless agents who understand
 boundaries and registries. I think it's going to be sooner than we all think that there's going to
 be some sort of digital wallet twin that understands our preferences, our risk tolerance can help
 build portfolios for us can help move money. We'll just do payments for behind the scenes.
 And over time, I think that's going to start melding not only with your wallet, but your
 prediction markets. And I think there's a world that's coming much faster than we expect. And it's
 agentic money, a digital twin of your wallet. And I'm not exaggerating. I think most of us are
 going to have that in the second half of 2026. Somebody asked me a question today, how are they
 governed? How do we govern these agents? It's pretty tough, because like, we always talk in DeFi,
 in a way, it's simple, even though our politicians haven't figured it out yet. It's like, leave the
 technology out of it. We're going to make sure that we enforce activities, institutions, individuals,
 behaviors, behaviors and activities, go after it, leave the tech out of it. So like, what do you do
 when you have like the technology and behaviors in a vertical, you know, how do you govern it?
 Like, that's going to be somebody asked me today. I didn't have an answer. I think you're right on
 the mark, though, Chris, is yeah, you're going to see these agents. You're going to have to
 keep my fridge stocked agent, keep me fed agent. It goes and orders Uber Eats. It knows my calendar,
 which is another agent. You're going to have the agent that does the send $200 to that person in
 Manila, call it foreign remittances agent. You're going to have agent that does subscription optimization.
 I'm probably paying for things I'm not actually using. So I agree, I didn't even have all these
 micro agents, which will have approvals and spend with the controls and some kind of orchestration
 agent, probably run by a big tech company or open AI. I hope it's not a big tech. I'm just
 saying that's probably the base case. So yeah, it's still, you know, still exciting times to
 early, still early in the use case adoption. All right, I'm going to bring this back around
 to the other side of the bank thing since Chris was talking about strategic assets earlier as well.
 Chris JP Morgan has stated that they're going to start accepting Bitcoin and
 ETH as loan collateral, allowing institutional clients to pledge them by the end of 2025. Sounds
 like they'll be using a third party custodian to avoid directly handling the crypto, but it expands
 on some of the prior moves to accept crypto linked ETFs as collateral and JP Morgan's own efforts in
 the payments space. This is something of a symbolic shift, as we all know, Jamie Diamond has been one
 of the biggest Bitcoin haters out there. But now his firm has started operating in this space. So
 Chris, how real is this? And then Joseph, I want to hear from you. What do you think the
 implications are of adding ETH to that list as well? I really want to hear from Joseph. I mean,
 borrow land seems to be like one of the first ports of call for like utility and really unlocking,
 you know, the value of these assets. Like, we know that crypto, it's private property in the
 internet for the first time it has value. How do you unlock that value by borrowing and loaning
 against it? Right. It's a super important, just table stakes foundational layer of finance.
 We saw, you know, I think Ketchup Fitzgerald's jumping into it. They were early. The fact that
 a potentially regulated bank now is now saying, wait a second, we're going to do this as well.
 It really got like caught my attention because when I was in the bank, like we have these regulatory
 capital rules where they treat different assets differently. And it's really nerdy stuff. But like,
 you could barely start any business even if you wanted to with crypto because you had to hold
 like almost 100% collateral capital against it. It's really hard to make a profitable business.
 And so like, my question is, is like, are things changing? Because I haven't heard that.
 And then number two, if you're that guy, like, like, Joseph, right now you have an equity.
 The equity rules are much more favorable when it comes to borrow land than the native rules.
 So like, as I start thinking about the unlocked, the potential of, of that's like, like,
 S bet. I mean, to me, this is like, like, wow, this is just so much more, much more utility than,
 than some of the native assets. But I'm really curious to hear what Joseph has to say.
 Yeah, I think I think that this is a watershed moment. What's interesting is for at least the
 last five years, banks have not been able to touch Bitcoin or ETH. But what they've been doing is
 market making the ETFs that we launched at BlackRock and Franklin Templeton and Fidelity. They've been
 in this room. They just haven't been able to touch it. I think it's a major signal for both Bitcoin
 and ETH. I think it's legitimizing them. And I think there's an investment thesis for people
 to have it in their portfolios. There's a reason why Sharpling, where the second largest ETH debt
 has gathered basically over the summer, three and a half billion of ETH, you know, as basically
 the highest powered money for the next generation of finance. And I'm talking about supporting trillions
 of stablecoins, RWA, which is at the early stage. But I think the second message here is that
 everyone crypto is looking for growth. And I think this decision plus the wipe out
 in the perps market is basically going to start really differentiating between quality growth
 assets and non quality growth assets. And, you know, you have this debt phenomenon where
 basically Bitcoin, ETH, and Solana are probably 99.9% of all debt assets because they have the most
 utility and the most promise. But I do think this is going to be a further differentiation
 between quality crypto assets, which have a use case, a business model, a mega theme,
 and those that just basically are being used for either trading purposes or speculation purposes.
 And I think this is another watershed moment. I would just remind people that on October 14th,
 when BlackRock was issuing its earnings, Larry made a statement and he did in his annual letter
 last year that all assets will be tokenized. Most of it is happening on Ethereum over 80%.
 And to date, there's only been about 30 billion of tokenized assets. And this has been happening
 over 70 years. Wait till you see the largest financial firms in the world, not only tokenize
 all equities, but tokenize the largest ETFs, you're going to see a boom for ETH and the
 Ethereum network. And that's why we're very bullish and gathering as much of this as we can at its
 current prices. But I think you're going to see a massive differentiation between stablecoins,
 Bitcoin, and ETH, and everything else. Yeah, and I'll add to that. I agree. It's a watershed
 moment. You have a couple trillion dollars that's now eligible for bank financing.
 So banks are going to lend against this. They're going to have high net worth and ultra high
 net worth investors and OGs and Bitcoin and Ethereum and soon will be sell on it too.
 They're not going to get liquidity in their holdings without having to sell and pay tax.
 Less sell pressure. You're seeing offerings like raincard. Raincard has raised a couple hundred
 million dollars. They allow crypto natives to walk around, spend against their crypto assets on chain
 and live a life like Mark Zuckerberg. Mark Zuckerberg isn't selling metastock. He's borrowing a 30%
 loan to value from a big bank against the value is holdings. So yeah, this is a big deal. And
 what's going to also happen is more of these assets are going to enter capital markets and
 the banking system, which is incredibly ironic, especially in the wake of choke point 2.0,
 where they were de-banked ostracized and JP Morgan would cancel accounts. If you disclosed
 you had crypto, you could get canceled. This was just two years ago. Now you're getting benefits
 in the form of liquidity if you custody your assets at a bank or if you contribute your capital
 in kind to an ETF. Again, Ron, wait till we see creative ways not only to pledge your Bitcoin
 and ETH as collateral. Maybe you're going to be able to soon pledge state ETH as collateral in
 some manner and then earn yield while you're using the asset as collateral. That is extremely
 productive and also differentiated over Bitcoin. We'll see if that happens. That is actually the
 liquid staking argument. I recently helped some folks write a comment letter on that for the SEC
 where it's like you could almost have the best of both worlds here. You have an asset that is
 productive contributing to the governance of a network generating some sort of return for the
 holders and is liquid at the same time. The funny part is people act like this is an alien thing,
 but we have a whole market where you can hold the asset and earn something and then trade it
 right now. It's called the bond market. This is not an alien concept for people, but I think as
 Ron was saying, all of this is now breaking to the mainstream in a way that's going to be
 transformative for the assets that achieve it. One of the most bullish things as well is that
 traditional finance hasn't caught up. If you look at accounting standards, for example,
 on LSTs, they're intangible assets. If you're holding those on your balance sheet, you have to
 mark them down to the lowest level over the reporting period. As these things get sorted and
 they're going to because we've got a government that wants innovation to happen, we have so many
 unlocks that are coming on, that are coming along, that are on the horizon, that are inevitable.
 That's a very bullish place to be. Speaking of potentially being available in the U.S.
 at some point, the founder of Binance, CZ, was pardoned by Donald Trump. As a reminder for
 everybody, CZ pled guilty. It was a plea bargain, not a trial. To one count of willfully violating
 the Bank Secrecy Act by failing to maintain an effective anti-bunny law during program at Binance,
 he served four months in federal prison for this. As a longtime banking person myself,
 I will point out this is not unique to the crypto industry. There are countless banks that have
 engaged in similar conduct. Even though in the Binance case, there were allegations that CZ
 knew about this. Again, the same has been true in the banking space. If you were to look at the
 history of TD Bank, Deutsche Bank, Citibank, HSBC, many others, I'm not picking and choosing
 favorites, this is a common problem. In all of those cases, while there were large fines,
 people largely did not go to jail. Trump granted a full pardon to CZ. After Binance had already paid
 a $4.3 billion fine as part of the settlement, the White House framed the pardon as support for
 crypto innovation and stated that CZ had been unfairly targeted. CZ said that he was grateful
 and pledges to help make America "the capital of crypto." The critics on the left would say this
 points to a possible conflict of interest given Binance's ties to some Trump-like projects. But
 I want to start with what do we make of this? What do we think of CZ's pardon? What is it
 stronger for Binance than the regulatory landscape? Look, I think a lot of people in this red CZ I know I did and I think now he will go on history as one of the most
 incredible fintech entrepreneurs of all time. Somehow, he's not on the Forbes list, which makes no sense. He
 should be like top 10. He owns one of the most valuable exchanges globally. I think you actually hit the
 nail on the head-offs and there's it just for a treatment here between him and what others did.
 Now, there was an early exchange that was found about these Microsoft dropouts and they were bigger
 than Coinbase back in the day. I'm trying to remember the name of it, but they also had BSA and Allen
 fractions. They just shut down due to that. So I think in the case of CZ as was the case with
 those entrepreneurs too, they were focused on building a business and just did not understand
 the compliance obligations that go with launching a business that moves money and touches money and touches
 the banking system. I think there's an interesting question around, is there a political angle here?
 Was there any donation made? We got to ask ourselves that question. Is there any potential link between
 the World Liberty Financial Stablecoin and CZ and Binance? Binance is the best exchange
 redistribution, but they already have their own native stablecoin. Well, we see announcement there.
 If we did, that would look a bit funny, right? But I don't know, Austin, what's your take on?
 Do you think there's a political angle or? Well, I'll pause you to say Binance no longer has their
 own stablecoin as the guy who used to manage the reserve to have before it was shut down.
 Yeah, that's what it is. I'll maintain, by the way, that was an own goal both politically and
 like a geopolitical level for the United States. Joseph was talking earlier about the importance
 of stablecoins for the dollar, and here we had one of the fastest growing stablecoins onshore. It was
 a top three stablecoin. It was in New York. It had reserves that were fully sufficient,
 fully disclosed. By the way, I know this because I was managing them, and then when they had
 the liquidated, they took it from $23.5 billion to zero, and it did absolutely nothing to the market.
 Everybody got their money back. We had it, and probably the biggest beneficiary of shutting that
 down is Tether, which is offshore and not nearly as transparent. So I think that was a huge mistake.
 And then it just leads to this overwhelming sort of pressure by, at the time, the Biden
 administration on crypto in ways that were fundamentally unfair. I've been critical of CZ's part,
 not because I think CZ should have been pardoned, but because I kind of think it's a half measure
 without stepping back and asking, "Why are we doing this disparate treatment thing?" Like,
 "What is going on with the Bag Secrecy Act?" That it's okay for HSBC to launder tens of billions of
 dollars for the cartels. And if you read that case, there were allegations like literally having boxes
 specifically made for the exact size of the teller windows to shoot them through there.
 Nobody raising red flags about this. Nobody went to jail. But of course, in crypto, you go to jail.
 I think there needs to be bigger and deeper, reform to prevent these issues and also
 ram to your point, when people are starting up a business, helping to educate them and get them
 up to speed on what is going on with anti-money laundering compliance and why that matters,
 rather than just chopping people's head off with an axe immediately.
 Right. So the coin they had was Binance USD was shut down under choke point
 with Paxos. That gap is still there. Couldn't they do a deal with what we're a Liberty Financial?
 Let's see. I will speak here on this one and say, "I'm not sure Binance wants a single specific
 stable coin going forward. They may now see that as a single point of failure problem."
 And this is an own goal geopolitically by the US. We could have had a US stable coin on there.
 Joseph, you've been trying to but I'm sorry. No, I'm less focused on the pardon angle as I am on
 the implications, which is I would anticipate weekly held opinion that in the first half of
 next year, you're going to see Binance US reinvigorate. My sense is you're going to get a lot of advertising
 on this podcast and it'll no longer have the disclaimer not available in all jurisdictions.
 The real interesting thing is, will they find some way to link the order books?
 Because the order book oversees dwarfs, anything you would see in a US crypto exchange and if they're
 able to find ways to link order books legitimately, I'm not suggesting they would do it illegitimately,
 you're going to see a lot of pressure on US and other crypto exchanges who've had that regulatory
 moat and barrier and I would anticipate they will be very aggressive to take advantage of this
 pardon and the clean slate. It's harder to do when you start seeing turnover at the SEC and CFTC
 later in an administration. I would assume they're going to be extremely aggressive and I think
 that'll put a lot of pressure on other participants here. Yeah, I guess I'll just chime in. So I think
 it's really important to distinguish C5 from DeFi. The DeFi argument is completely different,
 this is technology and it's the way people use it that needs to be regulated. Binance is a
 C5, it's a centralized entity and it really should be following the laws that apply to it. It's full
 stop. Austin, love your take. The thing that really got me back in the day was what I saw that I think
 it was a CFTC court document that said, "Hey, you could barely even buy an AK-47 with that 600
 bucks or whatever it was." That set me off to the moon. I got so angry because I was in Iraq and
 I was on the receiving end of those AK-47s and it's not fun and it's totally inexcusable to have
 that type of approach when you have buddies who were killed next to you. That is no bueno.
 Long story short, when you go back to 2004, maybe you didn't have crypto. It wasn't going to be
 invented for another four or five years. Then you start thinking and you're like, "Wait a second,
 before I joined crypto full-time, I really had to come to Jesus with myself." I'm like, "Listen,
 I cannot be involved in any kind of money laundering. It's so core to what I think about."
 I went into the OFAC website. I looked at every single fine and to your point, Austin, it was all
 banks and I'm like, "What is going on here?" We really got to step back. We have much bigger
 issues than going after a CEO and one of the other CEOs, the one in jail, double standard for sure.
 Yeah, I would say in many ways, I regard Binance as a symptom of the problem rather than the problem
 itself if we're thinking about what's going on. By the way, back to the value of the blockchain,
 consider how compliance works in the traditional financial system. Let's say Ramon's a bag,
 he's got a bunch of customers and he's trying to figure out, "Can I do business with these customers?"
 Well, what he's got available to him is basically the information those customers have given him,
 what he can verify in government records and other sources like that, and then the transaction
 data that he's got. If we have a chain of events to construct something that actually happens in
 the market where Ramon's got a customer who sends money to a bank that Chris owns and Chris's
 customer receives it, they spend money with a card that goes to a business that Joseph is servicing
 and then that business pays a dividend to an owner in a bank that say, "I own," and then that
 owner is the one who sends money to a terrorist organization. How the heck would any of you guys
 have known about it? Everybody is looking at their own feet with a flashlight and then we're
 expecting this to be an effective situation for policing money laundering. In many ways, Chris,
 you raise part of the answer, which is when you get to decentralized systems that have a lot more
 metadata attached to them, even if it's pseudonymous. I'm not saying docs, everybody here, that's crazy,
 but the pattern recognition gets much better and as you unmask the bad guys, you can start to see
 flows. If you were to have, I don't know, something we've discussed earlier, a US stablecoin with
 freeze and seize capabilities, now you might have the ability to reach in there and take that money
 out. Well, again, having created a system where in the first place we didn't have to KYC everybody
 to make that work. To me, the thing that I would hope to see come out of this, and I'm going to say
 so far, we haven't seen much indication of it, which I find disappointing with the current
 administration, is that if we really want to move in this direction, we can build a much better platform
 to stop the actual crime part of this from happening. Because one end of the disparate treatment,
 Chris, as you said, is exactly that CZ was punished back, executives were not,
 profoundly unfair. But the other problem is we have one system where we're constantly critiquing it
 for money laundering, which is crypto, and another where far more of that is probably occurring,
 which is banks, and we just seem to be ignoring it, which I personally find to be a bit of a problem.
 All right, Chris doesn't want to dunk on that, which is a good sign. So, final quick topic here,
 back actually to what Joseph was just saying about the importance of the government and their
 operations here. So, there was a whole Pruhaha around Brian Quintens becoming CFTC chair and his
 nomination being opposed by certain figures in the crypto space that led to it being withdrawn.
 But I have good news, our long national nightmare is finally over, we have a nominee for the CFTC
 chair. And it's Michael Selig, he was previously the head of the SEC crypto task force, was also at
 the CFTC with then commissioner and chair Jean Carlo, and he has pledged previously to help make
 the United States the crypto capital of the world, also had a long career as a private lawyer,
 was involved with the digital dollar project. Like Chris, also you and I both know Mike and
 big very highly of him, but I want to punt to the group, maybe actually starting with Joseph on this
 one. How important is it to have a pro-crypto CFTC chair for enacting some of the things that we
 want to as an industry? Very simple, two reactions, one is bullish. This is really, really important.
 You're not going to have that internecine warfare that we've seen between the SEC
 and the CFTC, they can essentially coordinate. But at the same time, I also think we need
 there to be beyond regulatory clarity, you still need to have supervision,
 because I think this industry has proven they can't necessarily always police themselves.
 I do think you need to have clarity, you have to have a pro-crypto leader, but you can't
 abdicate the responsibility to enforce those clear laws. I think what's more important to
 me personally, and this is a personal opinion, is to do to have a separation between the SEC
 and CFTC, the idea that the SEC chairman would run both. I don't think would would be the greatest
 precedent unless we want to have a unitary regulator like you have in other jurisdictions.
 Clearly bullish, and I'm also glad we have a precedent of having two independent
 chairman for both the SEC and CFTC.
 One criticism I've heard of Mike Cielig is that they said, "Oh, he's too close. Sidecar
 of Chairman Atkins." Take real offense to that. I totally appreciate we've got two different
 agencies here with two different remits, but they're focused on the same principles,
 and they have to be coordinated. We want them to be coordinated.
 They used to have a joint CFTC SEC committee that was supposed to come together to address
 novel issues. It was disbanded in 2014. What the hell? I don't think that should be a criticism.
 I think that should be an incredible tailwind, and something that he should underscore during
 his confirmation hearings. I'm a person who's going to work across agencies to get this thing
 right because it's really hard, it's really complex. I've met with both Chairman Atkins
 and Mike Cielig in the same room talking about the same principles. I'm excited about the path
 forward. This isn't missing. I think the big question now is how fast can we get him confirmed?
 Who are going to be the other commissioners? Let's get to work, guys. We're running out of time.
 We've got a lot to do. I'll pile in to say I don't think those issues are even unique specifically
 to just crypto, right? The call it "discordination" between the SEC and the CFTC is but a problem
 writ large. Certainly under Gensler's SEC with regard to how crypto was handled, but even if you
 just look at some of what happened with Dodd-Frank and sort of the Bruhaha around swaps and who
 governs security-based swaps and where's the dividing line and how do we have coherent frameworks
 for these? Some of these even remain unanswered to this day. Like I will remind everybody there
 was a stable value study that was supposed to be completed by 2011 that still is literally not
 complete partially because of these coordination issues between the regulators. I'll also say
 speaking to Chris' point, I think what's important for our regulators and it's something we failed
 at recently in the United States is having independent, thoughtful regulators who are going to listen
 to all sides on an issue. And I think Mike is one of those people knowing and personally you want
 the critics in the room, specifically the informed critics, right? Like not the hysterical sky is
 falling using the Internet will kill us all, but there are many deep critiques of this space.
 Joseph, I think you've had some of them about some chains in the past. And on the other hand,
 I think we need the proponents in the room and we need to get to a good outcome and thus we really
 do need the SEC and CFTC at least talking with each other respectfully. They don't always have
 to agree, but they need to be willing to communicate. Yeah, no agree with all the taste. I mean,
 these issues are legitimately difficult. How do you classify these assets? What's the taxonomy?
 They have traits sometimes with derivatives or securities. Ultimately, you need congressional
 action. And we have that coming also with Clarity Act. So I think the backdrop, you know, back to
 where we started is very constructive. I believe when I see it on the Clarity Act, I hope you're right.
 Yeah, I think going back to Dodd-Frank, that's going to be incredibly difficult to get all of
 that right in one shot. But one, hopefully perfect is not the enemy of good. And two,
 if you can't do the whole thing, guys, there is the whole idea of breaking it up into parts and
 passing each one. So all right, on that note, we've been rolling for an hour. So this is where I'm
 supposed to say thank you to my cohosts and especially thank you to Joseph Shalom for coming on. This
 has been fantastic. Thank you, Joseph. Really enjoyed it. This was super fun. The most conversational
 podcast that I've been on in a very long time. So thanks for having I'd love to come back again.
 Thank you, Joseph. We look forward to it. So thanks for joining us on this episode of This
 Adhips. We'll be back in a week to discuss more about how the world's crypto and macro colliding.
 Until then, take care, everyone. Ram, have fun in Vegas.
