TITLE: DeFi’s Dance with Fintech: Choreographing Tomorrow’s Finance with Paul Frambot
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pOS2N3Ce508
VIDEO_ID: pOS2N3Ce508

TRANSCRIPT:
Technology is eating the world and Fintech's first disrupted distribution and DeFi is disrupting
 infrastructure and there is a very natural wedding to happen between the DeFi world and the Fintech
 world in order to actually say, "Hey, by the way, all those Fintechs that had amazing distribution that
 was plugging all of this into the tradfi businesses were actually not switching to our own
 infrastructure." And then tradfi looks at this and is like, "Oh, we need to come on chain as well
 because otherwise we're going to lose all the distribution that we used to have." And all of a
 sudden, everybody, they used to operate into black box with like 3D fat margins to be frank,
 end up operating in an open environment where competition is actually fierce and where the value
 accrues to the edges of the network, which is the consumer, as opposed to like in a centralized
 back-end banking infrastructure. And that's really what excites me about DeFi and about crypto in
 general is like, how do we essentially take all the value at the center of the financial networks
 and how do we bring it to the edges.
 All right, here we are with Paul from Paul, the co-founder of Morpho. Paul, it's great to have
 you finally on the Defined podcast. Welcome. Thanks for having me. I'm really happy to be here.
 Awesome. And at ECC, no less. Yeah, no, it's a great, great weather, a bit too great even, like too
 hot, but it's great. So Paul, Morpho has quickly emerged as one of the leading lending protocols in
 DeFi and you've done that taking a bit of a different approach than other lenders. We were
 talking right now about you having between four to six billion of TVL depending on, you know, how
 you count those numbers. So yeah, we would love kind of the first, the backstory on what got you
 there. What gave you the idea of founding Morpho? Sure. So I started as a student, actually. I was
 studying consensus algorithms, distributed computing in France, actually, in Paris. And this is what
 got me into blockchains and then obviously crypto and then DeFi and then eventually landing. And so
 we started actually building on top of lending protocols. So we looked at compound, we looked at
 Ave, we saw that there was an important spread between the landing rate and the borrowing rates.
 And our first protocol that we now call Morpho V0 was called was essentially a way to optimize the
 interest rates of the Ave by matching their users peer to peer. And so we built on top of Ave,
 this protocol that got traction very fast. We got actually to $2 billion with this protocol. It was
 actually, I think, at the time, the largest user of Ave itself. And this is our entry into
 lending that was like two, three years ago almost now. And this first step had us realize that a few
 things needed to change if we truly wanted to be ambitious about on chain lending. And this is
 what sparked the idea of what we call now Morpho V1, which is the protocol today that has more than
 $6 billion of deposits, is the idea that the protocol should be permissionless, should be
 immutable, and it should allow anyone to actually create their lending products. So you can think
 of Ave as a fund, you deposit your money and Ave Dow is going to manage it for you. Think of Morpho
 as an infrastructure for funds, where anyone can deploy their own funds. We call them Vault Creators,
 and today we have 25, and they're going to create lending products that could look like an Ave,
 for example, with the similar risk profile, but also something that could be more risky, much less
 risky, much more conservative, different compliance, different risk, different fees, etc. And Morpho
 just gets to provide the permissionless immutable infrastructure, and then risk curators and distributors,
 and the building, the lending use case that they need for their specific users, right? And so this
 way, we couldn't quote like more B2B, couldn't quote, while Ave is more B2C, like Ave would address
 directly the end users, while Morpho addresses like direct businesses. So for example, Coinbase uses
 for their loans. So you should take a loan on Coinbase, for example, we use Morpho behind the scenes,
 but a bunch of wallets as well, like ledger, wallet, finance, wallet, trust wallets, safe
 wallet, for example, they all have their own version of Morpho that they deploy, that they configure to
 their specific use case, in order to tailor to their specific audience. So, and this is fully
 permissionless? It is. So any business or any individual user come to Morpho and create their
 own lending product? Exactly. If you're like a Latin fintech, and you want to create like a vault
 that generate yield on USD, Bitcoin, or local money, you can do that extremely easily on Morpho.
 But it's permissionless. So the fun story is that the first day on Morpho, we had actually like
 people trying to scam all the users and create fake markets, which obviously at the application
 level were not shown, but literally a few hours before we deployed the protocol, you know, the same
 way you have on Uniswap, you have those fake pairs that are created. So it could range from
 anything. Like the most like largest institution or like asset managers in the world could create
 markets as well as like, you know, a very DJ and use case, for example. So it doesn't require
 Morpho to allow specific assets to be deposited and use as collateral. Like anyone can use any
 type of collateral. We have zero control over the contracts. Contracts are immutable. Really exactly
 like Uniswap to this regard. You know, I have no say in what tokens should Coinbase use for
 example, right? And that's part of the value prop. Like Coinbase wants to own the financial
 infrastructure as well. And they want to be able to say, hey, like, you know, we don't want to ask
 part if we can do one thing or the other. It's all permissionless, right? And it's the same thing
 for for everyone in the protocol. Yeah. So that's a crucial difference with Avi, which does have
 to approve which collateral gets up gets on board it. Yeah, you can think of Avi as something that
 could have been built on top of Morpho actually compounds that used to be a competitor to Avi
 is now moving to Morpho. So they have Morpho volts now that they run and that they use the Morpho
 infrastructure for, right? So they used to have like the compound V free protocol. And now the
 latest are Morpho volts. Interesting. So how do you manage risk? Because obviously, you know,
 very volatile, low liquidity collateral could be added easily to Mars. So how do you segregate
 those types of assets? It's a good question. The protocol does not. The protocol enables anyone
 to create any form of risk, any form of compliance, etc. It's agnostic of the risk. It's the vault
 manager, the vault curator whose job is to actually decide, okay, what collateral asset am I going
 to expose my users to? What oracle am I, you know, going to be using? What liquidation,
 loan to value, what liquidity, etc. And so we have specialized firms whose job is actually to do
 this, right? So for example, like there was the gauntlet team, the stake house team, like RE7,
 block analytics, we have a very, very long list, energy capital. I could go on forever
 of risk managers, if you may, that deploy those vaults and whose job is actually to do the work,
 right? But the risk management piece has been externalized from the protocol. I don't get
 to have a say in what risk management, how risk management is in Morpho. So with these risk management
 teams, what measures can they take to protect end users? Well, it's fairly like, you know,
 there are a few things. Morpho in itself is quite simple protocol, right? So you have to make sure
 that the collateral that you're exposing the lenders to is safe. Say, like for example,
 WVTC or STEs, etc. are recognized as like pretty safe, like collateral in general.
 Then you need a safe oracle that you configure properly. That in case of like market
 hunters, like you are able to price accurately the assets, as well as a good
 liquidation on two values. So you want to make sure that there is enough collateralization of Bitcoin
 in order that in case there is a market crash and Bitcoin price is divided by two in just like a
 few minutes in an extreme scenario. You want to be making sure that the bars that are borrowing the
 USDC will be liquidated and that they will actually come back to repay because they're being liquidated.
 And so that's the job of the vote manager to do. But I think something that's important to
 understand is that Morpho is not looking to have all the possible like risk reward
 vault in the spectrum. So you could go very far down the risk curve and you could have something
 that's extremely risky if you wanted to that has a very high yield. And yes, maybe it will take
 some losses from time to time, but that's like the price of the risk quote unquote. And so we
 don't want to be like, we want to be the infrastructure where you can build any sort of like learning
 product that you would want. So your vision is like you said, a lot more B2B focused and you are
 now all about institutions. And it seems like it's the right time for that or at least there
 seems to be a shift in crypto where there is more institutions are more open to exploring crypto
 and even DeFi. So we would love more context from you from how are those conversations going from
 how has that developed? From when you first started approaching institutions to today,
 have you seen that shift? Oh, yeah, of course. So the shift is really, really
 incredible. It's been really impressive. A year ago, I was having already a lot of
 conversations with institutions, but it was much more sort of like research driven talking mostly
 to innovation labs and, you know, they were experimenting and building like internal knowledge.
 Nothing was business driven at all. And the main difference now is that there is so much money on
 chain that all those institutions see an opportunity, a business opportunity, not just a research
 opportunity. And so as a result, in those large companies, the people we get to talk to now are
 the business units that have KPIs to match and that are actually driven by the outcomes,
 the product outcomes, not by like the experiment. And so this makes a world complete new difference,
 right? Because you can actually start building very interesting products together with
 those institutions. And institutions is a broad term, but you have everybody ranging from like
 the exchanges, the FinTechs, the Neo Banks, to the asset managers and the banks, right? So there's
 the wide spectrum of like, from most crypto native to least crypto native. And good news is that
 DeFi protocols, especially when they're positioned as an infrastructure and permissionless, etc,
 they can serve all the risk and compliance spectrum. All right. And so we get to work with all the
 spectrum. And there is interest from everyone. And at the end of the everybody will be connected
 in a single protocol. So that's very exciting. So what types of use cases are institutions
 interested in right now? So it really depends like, again, it depends on what we mean by
 institution, but for example, here, an asset manager, right, large stratification manager,
 well, more for is an asset management protocol. You can deploy vaults, you can manage phones,
 and expose it to different risks, etc. So that could be an interesting use case for them, right?
 Right now, when you look at tradfi, they are tokenizing a lot of stuff. But in practice,
 what does that mean? Is that they have a phone that is off chain running on off chain rails,
 like traditional backends, etc. And they're just going to tokenize the share. And so they do this
 because there's a lot of money on chain and they want to benefit from the distribution.
 But the reality is that it's really awesome. But it's still a bit of a frank inch time, right?
 Because you're sort of plugging in the DeFi protocol token, it was actually a representation
 of something that's highly complex chain, right? The idea of world is that we bring the off chain
 part on chain, right? And this is kind of like what more for is meant to be, right? Like a,
 you know, a non chain protocol that lets people actually manage phones, right? And risk on chain
 in compliance, etc, etc. And so to that regard, that's an interesting use case for banks, for asset
 managers, etc, etc. It's okay. So it's interesting that the framing, because, you know, to me,
 morpho is about lending and borrowing. And that's, I think like the, if I'm not mistaken,
 the first major institutional use case has been Coinbase, you're saying morpho for their users
 to lend against their Bitcoin, right? Okay. But you're now talking about morpho as like a
 fund infrastructure. So say like BlackRock, which is, you know, they have, you're talking about like
 tokenized funds, they have their TVL fund. How would that look like if BlackRock were to actually
 issue funds directly on chain on morpho? You're right. So I should clarify,
 morpho is a multi-setting market. You have lenders, you have borrowers. So you have use case for both
 kind of institutions. On the borrower side, you have what we do with Coinbase, for example, where,
 you know, you can use the morpho infrastructure to build borrowing markets for your users, right?
 And then you have the lending side, where you have to manage funds to allocate to borrowers, right?
 And so for example, the middle is, in some way, a morpho vault off chain, where essentially the
 idea is that you manage a portfolio of bonds, right? And it's state bonds. So essentially,
 BlackRock gets capital and then allocates this capital to bars. And so in that case,
 it would be the state or it would be a repo market, whatever. All of this could be in theory
 and practices stuff, but in theory, it could be reproduced on chain, where the MMF is, the money
 market fund is a morpho vault that collects money and then it's going to directly lend the money
 to a state, right? It could be through the form of bonds, whatever, whatever instrument.
 And the vault in itself becomes the MMF, right? And it's not some kind of like off chain,
 like instrument that gets tokenized on chain. It's like the fund is actually running on chain
 and is recognized like on chain. There are obviously some, you know,
 regulatory like bottlenecks to have like securities recognized in blockchains without having to
 tokenize them in the U.S. specifically. In Europe, you can have like, you can have more and more,
 like, especially in France, we have like some regimes that allow you to mint like securities
 and those kind of funds directly on chain without having enough chain representation.
 Everything can be done on chain natively. Interesting. Yeah. Yeah, because like that would be
 then like the next step after real world assets. Exactly. Right?
 The PR Genius is a top crypto PR and growth marketing agency, helping brands globally with
 expert PR and strategic growth marketing. They've worked with 300 plus projects like movement labs
 and IO.net. Unlike traditional agencies, they charge only on performance. Their services include
 earned PR opportunities and marketing services to help boost wallet holders and organic ex-followers.
 Learn more at www.thePRGenius.com. Our WIs are all the rage and everyone, you know, is talking about
 like tokenizing assets off chain to represent on chain. Exactly. But this would be like a step
 further. Exactly. Like bringing issuing assets directly on chain. Yeah, no 100%. Like native issuance
 or we need a name like like we have for real world assets, all those kind of things. But having the
 actual other side of the market. So usually it could be credit, it could be state bonds, etc.
 Having them natively issued on the chain would be really like the key unlock to have like old
 tratify actually porting their technologies on chain. And yeah. And so this is what I'm personally
 excited about. It's a bit, as you said, a few steps forward after a tokenization as we think
 about it right now. But it has to be the future. It has to be the next step because that's what's
 going to unlock the most, you know, amount of efficiency, network effects, etc. To have everything
 in one single state machine, which is the blockchain. Do you think like the logical first step for
 that is like equity on chain? Like if if companies started just like issuing their shares on chain
 without having them ever be obtained. That would be awesome. So I think the first example we've seen
 of that, if I'm not mistaken, it's already been live from Sockgen. So Sockgen is a French bank and
 they're leveraging this pilot regime for DLT's in France that allows them to mint securities and
 depth instruments whose registry of ownership is the blockchain. And it's natively on chain
 and there is no such thing as like an blockchain registry for those, right? And experimenting with
 those kind of like regulations, I think super important to be able to welcome like, you know,
 all the securities on a decentralized ledger. And you know, we definitely see that this is where the
 world is going. Like if you look at what Robinhood announced yesterday, for example, it was, you know,
 they're launching like those stock tokens on Europe. And this is definitely the direction.
 So in the case of stock tokens, it's still a representation of something that's off-chain,
 but eventually that would definitely be the direction I'm guessing.
 Super interesting. So, okay, let's come back to the press and that's like a very futuristic
 vision. So you're seeing a lot of interest from institutions. Can you reveal like some of the,
 I don't know if names would like implementations that we might see on more for coming forward?
 Well, I obviously can't give names specifically, but I think general idea is that what we've done
 was Coinbase, which I think is truly amazing in the sense that it was the very first time
 that we were giving access with web to feature parity. Like the users,
 the 100 million users of Coinbase have no idea that Coinbase loans is a DeFi product, right?
 And they should not be aware of that, right? The only thing is that when they
 perform their loan at the very, very end, it's written powered by Morpho, which is the only sign
 that could make them guess that this thing is not like, is there something more to it?
 But it's truly amazing because now Coinbase is able to access global liquidity outside of
 the Coinbase ecosystem. Like the lending liquidity that the bars are taking is coming outside of
 comments, actually coming from other fintechs that are depositing liquidity into Coinbase,
 right? Which is crazy, right? Because now Coinbase uses base as a global back-end that connects
 liquidity from many different sources. And I think this integration end-to-end from the chain,
 to the protocol, to the tokenization of VTC, gas subtraction, wallet subtraction,
 pass keys, etc. All that together was what was needed to prove that you can build better products
 on chain with feature parity with web2. And this inspired a lot of other people, right?
 And I've been very, very impressed by how this was embedded into the pitch deck of like
 every single bank, every single asset manager, every single player I've been talking to,
 oh yeah, Coinbase, Morpho, Bitcoin, my loans. And this has been really impressive. And even
 for Morpho, it was a true zero to one, right? In terms of like how fast our conversations were moving.
 And yeah, and so, sort of like the playbook for us has been like, hey, how can we replicate this
 playbook with other players and build this global network of liquidity in which you have, obviously,
 Coinbase, but also like other fintechs, other exchanges, etc. that could do the same. And maybe
 even like more institutional players that come together in like one single network of liquidity,
 that's going to benefit everyone, right? For example, Coinbase would be like super happy
 if we can bring on more lenders coming from other, you know, venues that could even be
 their competitors, right? Because that would bring them more liquidity, so better pricing,
 better efficiency, etc, etc. And so yeah, and so that's what we've spent most of our time in the
 last six months, I would say. It's so interesting how using DeFi as a backend to fintechs or banks
 can unlock so much, like just instead of having, you know, one closed company, one wall garden,
 like you said, you now Coinbase by integrating DeFi in the backend, it just has access to it,
 like, that's awesome, right? Like just like a global liquidity, that wasn't possible before.
 It's actually the title of my talk tomorrow at ECC is DeFi as the backend for fintech,
 and goes through essentially the four reasons why you want to use DeFi as a backend, which is
 number one, you said it is global liquidity and global accessibility, like that gives you like,
 so deeper liquidity, better pricing for your end users. The second one is super easy to integrate,
 like it's all open source, like Coinbase open source, some of their integration code
 for the Coinbase Bitcoin back loans and other stuff. And so frankly, like now with AI,
 you can spin off your new bank application that plugs into Morpho in like literally a day, right?
 And that to me, that's insane, right? Number three is transparency. And you know,
 transparency has been a bit like the meme where people don't really care that much as the end
 user, the things are transparent at the end of the day. And this is something we've been repeating
 over and over as an ecosystem. That said, in the case of crypto back loans with Coinbase,
 well, if you take FTX, for example, a lot of people got burnt, right? By, okay, they put
 their collateral in the thing to take a loan, but they'll never see their collateral again,
 because it was rare authenticated into a la media, for example. And so having the chance to,
 how should I say? Coinbase is now able to prove to everyone that every single
 dollar of Bitcoin that is deposited in this use case happens to be in self custody of every user
 in the morpher smart contract. And you can verify that you don't have to take Coinbase for the word
 for it, which is really incredible. And the fourth reason is ownership. And so what does that mean?
 Well, Coinbase and all those Fintechs, like their own distribution, but they don't own,
 in many cases, the infrastructure. Like if you are Robin Hood, or if you are
 revolutionaries, et cetera, usually you would rely on a bunch of other partners, brokers,
 et cetera, in order to operate your financial services. You don't own the financial service
 yourself. And what's awesome about Robin Hood chain that they announced yesterday is that they're
 moving away from not owning the infrastructure, to actually owning the infrastructure, right?
 And so now they'll be able to build financial products, and to end from distribution to
 infrastructure that they can shape into whatever they want in order to build the best possible
 product for the Revolut or the Robin Hood use base. And to me, that's really exciting,
 the fact that they can rely on immutable code that they have to trust no one, and they can
 build the financial product that really makes sense for them is one of the key value proposition
 of DeFi. For sure. Okay, but in the end, like all of that, the great benefits. But in the end,
 users will obviously look at what's the most profitable. Can, how do DeFi rates compete with
 tradfi or like fintech rates? It's funny because I got a few calls from landing desk in the last few
 months. And the guys asked me, hey, how come retails on Coinbase app get 5% out of their loan?
 Well, institutional rates are at 8% right now. And I'm like, wait, how do you get 8% that's very,
 very high, right? It's like, hey, you know, look at my book. So they have their internal like trading
 book and stuff. And I see the orders and the reality is that because those books are closed,
 there is no competition, right? No one can come in and say, hey, 8% is too much. I'll take it right.
 Whereas in DeFi, everything is open. So the competition is truly like the market is so much
 more efficient. Because if for example, Coinbase borrows starts to pay, you know, 6 or 7% lenders
 will come because the opportunity is visible to everyone. Whereas if you have a private OTC
 lending desk, no one knows there is an 8% opportunity of Bitcoin secured lending. I would take it.
 Like it's a good yield, 8% for Bitcoin back loan. It's a very safe product. And so the fact that
 everything is open unleashes a very strong competition between lenders. And this is what drives efficiency,
 like the network effects of everybody can come together and arbitrage the rate in a way that's
 completely open. It's really what drives better pricing, better liquidity, better efficiency,
 et cetera, et cetera. Yeah, that makes sense. So I think on the crypto native side,
 the connection to DeFi is obviously a lot easier and very obvious. And it's kind of like a straightforward
 path. But what do you think is missing for more like traditional banks and FinTechs even to actually
 use DeFi on the back. And like from conversations, you're having like what are some of the roadblocks
 that they're seeing? FinTech's not so many roadblocks, frankly, just like execution and time now.
 Okay. Frankly, obviously exchanges even better. Banks is different. Banks still have much,
 much heavier regulatory requirements in order to operate. And so it's very tough for them to
 move into permissionless blockchain environments. For example, GP Morgan and I believe are still
 using like Onix or like their pride blockchain for repo. And you know, I think eventually everybody
 understands now, I think everybody now understands that permissionless blockchains are much better
 eventually. Before the reason I just mentioned before, which is like, more open means more
 competition means better pricing, means bigger liquidity, more efficiency, et cetera. So the more
 you can welcome anybody at one single place, the more efficiency you'll drive. And so everybody gets
 this, but there are still some regulatory roadblocks in order to be able to, for them to interact with
 permissionless blockchain. I don't want to talk too much about what those specifically are because
 I'm not sure to be transparent. And also just as a fact that there is a lot for them to learn still
 as organizations on how they operate on chain. Now they all want to, which is great. But there
 is still a gap in like knowledge and understanding. A gap that is tightening is getting smaller and
 smaller. Fast. I'm very impressed, by the way, by the people in like those institutions. But still,
 still a gap, prison. Do you think is privacy a concern?
 It's a good question. I think at scale, it will be for sure a concern. I think the time
 to market for privacy is not there, though. Super, super, super, super important, obviously.
 And by the way, I think this is like most of the focus of italic, like having were listening to
 italic yesterday. And he would like emphasize privacy and the privacy roadmap for, like, you know,
 for at least like 10 minutes during his talk. And so there are really two kinds of privacy for D5.
 You have the anonymization of the address and the amount. So what does that mean?
 You are interacting with the D5 protocol. All the transactions are visible. So someone can see
 that someone interacted. Can they know it's you? Can they know it? So that's one first question.
 And the second question is like, okay, you can see that people are transacting. Can they see how
 much you're transacting, right? The first one is much easier to achieve than the second one.
 Second one requires like very complex cryptography in order to be able to like anonymize the amount.
 It trades with the efficiency of D5 protocols. It also requires to reshape completely
 D5 protocols overall. The first one is much easier. It's much more of a UX things like, you know,
 you have this thing in crypto where if you have a payment in crypto, you don't want to share
 your main address because it's just going to leak your entire portfolio. So you would usually share
 a new fresh address, then receive the money, then send it to an exchange, then get the exchange to
 send to another account. And this UX is a bit clunky. And there are solutions to be able to like,
 you know, give just a name. And like the system does the key management for you in the private way.
 This I believe is going to be needed sooner than later. The other part, which is anonymizing
 the amounts, much later down the path, probably needed though, down if we truly want to achieve
 scale for like, you know, capital markets and institutional markets, etc. Definitely.
 Yeah, I think, you know, from my conversations, that's like concern number one with transacting
 block deals. Yeah. Yeah. What if sending crypto felt more human? Pulse just launched red packets,
 a new way to give tokens with meaning. It's gasless, gamified and claimable inside group chats only.
 Think air drops meet social cues on chain. Backed by smart wallet tech and live across
 major L2s, red packets turned communities into microeconomies of gratitude and growth. No seed
 phrases, no friction, just connection with value. Check it out at pulse dot social.
 Okay. Now, changing topics to the DeFi lending market overall. I recently did a piece for the
 Define newsletter. That was, you know, looking at how the ecosystem has changed from the very
 early days. And it's really interesting because early days it was basically
 compound filmmaker. And, you know, in the past couple years, the ecosystem has become
 a lot more diverse. Like I said, at the beginning of the conversation,
 Marvel has really been one of the kind of the star emerging lenders.
 But Avi has continued to gain market share, even as kind of diversity increases.
 So your thoughts on kind of where that is going. Is it some sort of network effect for Avi that's
 just very hard to compete against them right now? Or I guess the pie just grows for everyone.
 But how do you view competition among lenders in DeFi?
 Right. So I think Avi is an awesome bank for crypto users.
 Morpho is an infrastructure for banks, for crypto users. And so there regard the long-term game
 of Morpho and the long-term game of Avi, I think is very different, right? And if you look at both
 of our upcoming versions, which is Avi before and Morpho V2 respectively, it goes really in
 two very different directions, right? Morpho is going the free market route where we're letting
 and unleashing completely like lending markets and letting the ability for any creators to do,
 to price the risk of any asset, to fix rates, etc, etc. While Avi is putting even more under
 the control of token owners with bridges, etc, etc, like interest rate models, whatever.
 And so what I mean by this is that I don't think we have the same long-term game at all and the
 same market, quote-unquote. Avi, for example, is much more fully integrated as they do risk
 management and compliance management themselves. For example, they built like this horizon,
 which is like, quote-unquote, institutional product that allows people to tokenize their
 funds and use them as collateral to borrow USD. But they get, it's an investment product that
 they manage, right? Horizon. Morpho is an infrastructure for anyone to build those kind of use cases.
 And, you know, the hope on the morphosides is that the person competing with Avi are our
 builders, like the creators on top of Morpho are the one competing with Avi. And they've been growing
 a lot. And most interestingly, the creators of today, maybe they're going to partner with the
 creators of tomorrow. And those guys are probably much bigger than Avi themselves, right? And so
 my point is that in the world where the number of tokens increases, and I believe we're like
 orders of magnitude away of the number of tokens that we'll have on chain, you can't
 manage everything yourself. You have to open the blockade to anyone to be able to do risk
 management, to be able to go down to, and that collateral is lending and to do credit, you can't
 be like managing every single line of credit in the world with token orders. I don't think that's
 scalable. However, if you have an open system, it takes much more time. It's a much longer route.
 But then you build a builder ecosystem where people can manage funds on top of you and create
 actual businesses, hire people. And then all of a sudden, you end up with 25 companies that are
 building on top of the Morpho network, reinvesting resources in the Morpho network. And that will
 constantly chase new risk and grow the pie. So I hope it makes sense, but there is a
 regard. It's like a very different long-term game. And I've been doing great as a single
 manager model where the bank, there are the bank. And I think eventually some of our banks
 that are built on top of our infrastructure will do even better.
 Interesting. That's a bold claim. How big do you think that the lending market can be?
 Today in Tretai, just a repo market, which is over-claturized lending, with, let's say, treasury is
 as collateral to bar cash, is trillions of dollars of volume every day. So Aave, I think, is like 30
 something total deposits, a billion dollars of deposits, Morpho is 6. We are very, very small
 compared to deciding what Tretai can bring. And this is why, again, I think the infrastructure
 plays really interesting, because you want the big guys to leverage an existing infrastructure
 to build their own thing that they own. And so whenever they come in, they will be the guys that
 make the most amount of volume on crypto rails. And so it's a 10 trillion dollar market,
 like over-claturized lending. Not even speaking of under-claturized lending,
 which Morpho is also chasing, eventually, as part of Morpho V2 and other stuff we're cooking.
 Which is an even bigger market, right? But that's another story, right?
 Let's actually get into that. I'm interested in your thoughts on how if I can get to unsecured
 lending? Two questions. I thought a lot about that. And I wrote a piece that I published a few
 weeks ago, one month ago, two months ago, that is called The Price of Trust. And what this piece
 discusses is essentially the eight-year that, for the last seven, eight years in D5, we've thought
 about protocols as an entity that's going to issue loan in a risk-free manner. So what do I
 mean by this is that we were thinking, hey, the role of lending protocol is to issue loan and to
 secure that loan and make sure that there is no loss of capital, right? And what we ended up
 concluding with Morpho is that it's not the role of the protocol to issue the loans, it's the role
 of the markets, right? And that's also a main difference with Avi, right? Avi is the protocol
 issuing the loan, deciding which collateral is accepted. And so you take money from Avi, right?
 And Morpho would provide infrastructure for the market to give a price to things and say, hey,
 I'd be willing to lend my USDC against BTC as collateral. And I would price this 6%, right?
 And so in the Morpho world, what creators are doing is that they're giving a price
 to a commitment of future value, right? So a borrower is making a promise and is saying, hey,
 I'm going to come back with the money at one point. And so the lender is like, okay,
 why would I trust you for? Well, they say, here is some collateral. And by the way,
 you can seize it. And there is enough liquidity you'll be able to liquidate it. Sometimes it's
 not true and it becomes under collateralized, right? But and so that's why the lender trusts the borrower
 and decides to give it a price, right? Maybe if they're not so sure, they'll give it like 10%.
 If they are very comfortable, they'll give it like four or like software rates. And it's very
 important to understand that this, the interest rate is the price of trust, right? And trust is
 conveyed with liquidatable collateral today. There's really nothing preventing another trust
 assumption to come in. So let's say, okay, I'm Paul. I sign a message saying, hey, I would like to take,
 you know, 100k loan at 25% to buy a house. If I submit this intent in the Morphin network,
 no guarantee is nothing, right? I think some creators would give me the loan. Why? Because they trust me,
 right? And so then they would have me pay the price of this trust, right? Or the risk of me
 not repaying, if you may, right? Obviously, that's a very weak commitment that I'm making. I'm just
 like on honor and on my reputation, etc. You could do much better than that, right? You start having
 identity primitives. So you could say, hey, here first, I can prove I'm a human. I can prove that,
 you know, my name is XYZ. Or if I don't want to disclose my name, I could say, oh, I can prove
 that my risk or off chain is XYZ. And also, here is a legal document under the laws of the US that
 states that if I don't repay, my credit score gets impacted, or those kind of things, right?
 Or maybe it's under the laws of France, whatever, right? As soon as you can broadcast this and you
 can show to the lender why you can be trusted, then the market, the creators can look at all of
 this and say, hey, okay, I'll give you like 25%, or I give you 20, etc. And the intuition here is
 that it's not for the protocol anymore to like algorithmically issue the loan for all those individual
 lenders. It's a market where creators can give a price to whatever trust assumption the bar is
 bringing. Collateral being one trust assumption, but it's not exclusive at all. Could be much more
 than that, right? And so this is just the general direction. If you go to permissionless route,
 the free market route, which Morfoy is taking, there is a very natural path to under collateral
 as lending and credit, where the bars can, you know, with identity primitives, with some like legal
 primitives, etc. You can bring trust. And we won't specify like a specific, you know, legal,
 like module, etc. It's just like, it could be anything. It could be under the laws of like,
 you know, whatever, France or Kenya or the US. And then it's for the lender to assess, okay,
 do I trust this contract? Do I do not, etc. So yeah, does that make sense?
 Yeah. Is that like something that's actually in the works or is still kind of a thought experiment?
 It is. It is something we've been, you know, actually thinking about, yeah,
 Internet Morfoy. Interesting. Okay. And about that. And to start wrapping up,
 what are some of the, you know, like big milestones that we should expect from Morfoy this year?
 So this year,
 and just we, I just hope we help bring more real world use cases that are not into crypto
 on chain. And we help them discover the full power of being on chain, right? And we help them
 understand that if they have their yield solution that is off chain and they move it on chain,
 they get much better yields. We have them understand that if, you know, they do this,
 it would be super easy to integrate and they won't have to deal with like a clunky API,
 but it's like a half a day integration for their engineers.
 And finally, have them understand that if they have the distribution, they are the king,
 and they don't have to rely on track for anymore, they can actually own their own
 financial infrastructure. And they can rely on DeFi and blockchains to do that.
 Awesome. So what's kind of the end goal? Like Morfoy teaming up with FinTechs to overcome
 or like take over finance? Well, I think, you know, there's a few things.
 Morfoy wants to be the internet protocol for financing, right? Anybody that has an
 excess of capital that wants to generate yields should be matched with someone that has a need
 for financing, right? In the most efficient way possible for Morfoy, right? And as part of this,
 there is this disruption that is needed, right? And I think the game plan is really
 technology is eating the world and FinTechs first disrupted distribution
 and DeFi is disrupting infrastructure. And there is a very natural
 wedding to happen between the DeFi world and the FinTech world in order to actually say,
 "Hey, by the way, all those FinTechs that had amazing distribution that was plugging all of this
 into the tradfi businesses, we're actually going to now switching to our own
 infrastructure." And then tradfi looks at this and is like, "Oh, we need to
 come on chain as well because otherwise we're going to lose all the distribution that we used to have."
 And all of a sudden everybody, they used to operate into black box, you know, with like
 really fat margins to be frank, end up operating in an open environment where competition is
 actually fierce and where the value accrues to the edges of the network, which is the consumer,
 as opposed to like in the centralized back end of banking infrastructure. And that's really what
 excites me about DeFi and about crypto in general is like, how do we essentially take all the value
 at the center of the financial networks and how do we bring it to the edges?
 It seems like such an ambitious and kind of, you know, like really long term view for DeFi,
 but to me it's been exciting to see some of the biggest FinTechs actually using crypto in,
 you know, this past few months with like Robinhood announcement yesterday and we had, you know,
 Stripe paper and so on. So it's like we're actually starting to see a glimmer of that future that
 you described. Yeah, awesome. Yeah, we just like in the past like three weeks we integrated like
 with five or six different FinTechs like from Lemon and like Argentina to like the block in France
 and a bunch of others. And it's really happening. It's really exciting. It is happening. Awesome.
 Well, thank you so much for joining me. This was amazing. Likewise.
