TITLE: Dive Into Lending, Borrowing, and Real World Assets with Maple Finance: Sid Powell
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=By48eSg6nN4
VIDEO_ID: By48eSg6nN4

TRANSCRIPT:
both like institutions or retail would want to use blockchains for this like what's the
 blockchain advantage to landing?
 It's very rare that people pick up and use a new product just because the technology
 is really cool.
 That's like like if you look at the kind of the hype cycle that's like the super early
 adopters that's not kind of the bulk of the market.
 The bulk of the market picks it up when you can kind of offer something they can't get
 elsewhere that's like better, faster or cheaper.
 So if you look, traditional firms won't lend you stablecoins.
 Like if you're a crypto native firm and you want to go and trade on a centralized exchange,
 you're actually better off just getting stablecoins rather than getting fiat.
 There's also a distinct lack of supply of lending against crypto coming from traditional
 finance.
 A lack of other options is kind of also driving people towards solutions like us.
 All right, here we are with Sid Powell, founder and CEO of Maple Finance.
 Sid, it's great to have you back on the Define podcast.
 Thanks for having me back, Camilla.
 It's been a while.
 Yeah, and lots have happened.
 So great to catch up especially because real-world assets, on-chain lending has been I think one
 of the strongest areas in DeFi and crypto, maybe a little bit overlooked.
 But I think kind of where the real use cases are happening and it's in the name real-world
 assets.
 I agree.
 I think after stablecoins, I think real-world assets and indeed yield products on-chain
 are kind of one of the areas that's seeing the most growth and also the most interest
 from traditional finance players because they all instinctively get it.
 A lot of them come from banking backgrounds and so they instinctively get the idea of credit
 or a fixed income on-chain and it is alongside like derivatives and things like hyperliquid.
 It's one of the few areas that's kind of producing cash flows for projects at this stage.
 We'll get into the details on kind of the growth we've seen on that front.
 But I want to take a step back and just start from the very basics for those who might not
 know what Maple Finance is and does to provide just a bit of context.
 Maple Finance is one of the biggest real-world assets, protocols out there, driving.
 I think it's the third largest on-chain lender.
 In terms of assets outstanding, so just to put some kind of numbers to give listeners
 a home context.
 We have around 800 million in assets on the platform or in TVL.
 You can think of us like tokenized private credit.
 Private credit is one of the fastest growing segments in traditional finance and effectively
 we're tokenizing loans to private companies.
 Our clientele happens to be crypto-native institutions who serve as borrows.
 Really that 800 no-mark puts us at the upper end of RWA-focused protocols on-chain.
 That's effectively loans and collateral and we have a loan book of hundreds of millions
 of dollars to institutional borrows out there.
 I'd love to hear a bit of the story on how you got there and then we can talk about moving
 forward the trends you're seeing.
 You've been around DeFi for a while now and you had some really spectacular growth recently
 starting from last year, so I'd love to hear the journey.
 Yeah, for sure, happy to.
 Maybe to start from the beginning, Maple's been around operating since 2020, so that
 was late 2020 was when we raised capital, so really like very early last cycle.
 Our focus has always been credit and lending on-chain and really the pivotal inflection
 point for us in this most recent cycle was late 2023 we launched over collateralized
 lending and that's now formed the basis of that 800 mill TVL that we have today.
 On that kind of 18-month journey, we've seen a couple of critical inflection points.
 Q2 last year, what we did was we widened the collateral that we would accept and we started
 doing loans over collateralized against Solana and other large caps and that Solana backed
 lending really propelled our growth for Q2 and then Q3 we made the decision to launch
 Syrup USDC, which is our permissionless product.
 So what we wanted to do was we wanted to be able to partner with protocols out there,
 like Pendle, Spark/Sky and Morpho and what we needed was we needed a kind of permissionless
 access point for those players who are DeFi protocols themselves to come in and access
 the product.
 Under the hood, it's all still the same institutional over collateralized loans, but it gave us an
 access point for these partnerships and then the second point was retail access.
 So the core product had been restricted to accredited investors, whereas by having a
 retail product, we could take somebody, a client from Argentina or from Japan, let's
 say, as long as they had USDC and wanted yield and that pool, Syrup USDC, that's the largest
 one on the platform at almost 300 mill TVL by itself, but it now has integrations with
 Pendle, so there's a PT and a YTPL where folks can lock in a fixed yield.
 They can use it if you're depositing, you can actually use it as collateral on Morpho
 and we've seen a number of hedge funds start to do looping there because the Syrup USDC
 token or LP token pays a higher interest rate than the borrowing cost on Morpho, so we've
 seen DeFi hedge funds look to do that looping.
 And then most recently, we actually got on-boarded by Sky, Skye and Spark, and so they're now deploying
 some of their balance sheet into the Syrup pool, so really that was a tremendous inflection
 point for us over the last 18 months was getting that out and those integrations.
 Very cool.
 So the first integration, integrating different kinds of collateral for over collateralized
 loans, this is all still for private credit.
 So when you mentioned Solana, these are institutions who are lending their Solana assets and then
 institutions on the other side who are borrowing that out or how does that market work?
 It's a good question, so our borrowers are all institutions.
 So this can include OTC desks, prime brokers, some, we actually have a couple of centralized
 exchange borrowers and hedge funds, like on-chain hedge funds.
 I think folks who might do yield strategies, whether it's Pendle or Athena or something
 similar.
 And then the newest type of client we've had has been Heine at Worth's and family offices.
 So we had one Heine at Worth client who wanted to borrow against their ETH to purchase some
 large real estate as an investment.
 But the borrow side is all institutions and in the case of that Solana, the institution
 pledged us their Solana as collateral or their sole as collateral and then we lent them USDC.
 And on the other side, that USDC will come from a mix of Heine at Worth's corporate treasuries,
 some corporate treasuries like the idea of lending against Bitcoin or ETH, for example,
 and then professional asset managers as well.
 And then through Syrup, USDC, we have more of your kind of like DeFi retail or protocol
 users.
 Okay.
 So it is very varied.
 Interesting.
 Okay.
 So now with the retail product, you're also supplying stablecoins for institutions who are
 looking to borrow stablecoins against their different crypto.
 That's right.
 Yeah.
 We're always still borrowing stablecoins.
 We've tried lending altcoins or other large caps.
 The most significant type of deal we did was we lent Solana for that locked FTX estate
 deal.
 So in that case, a couple of institutions wanted to borrow sole so they could forward sell
 it to hedge the price from the locked deal.
 By and large, all the demand we see today is pretty much for stablecoin borrowing.
 And that continues to grow.
 I'd say the market's been a little bit quiet around the tariffs and the macroeconomic uncertainty.
 So we have seen rates compress a little bit there to kind of the mid to high single digits.
 But that can flip like that.
 Like in December, we were seeing rates, you know, 12% and higher.
 So it is very macro driven, but because the space is so small that the supply and demand
 can kind of change very quickly.
 And that will drive significant changes in rates.
 But I would say at the moment, kind of less appetite from borrowers, but because bitcoins
 not ripping, we're seeing a lot more demand for yield.
 Reports are sitting there saying Bitcoin's not going to going back to 100k in the next
 couple of months.
 So I'm going to sit in stables and try and get the stables to work for me and earn some
 yield.
 And that's when they come to us.
 And the difference with other lending protocols say, you know, the yield here is coming from
 the difference is like, I guess, the users of their protocol, right?
 Like these are institutions who are borrowing, and that's where you would get the yield if
 you want to lend your stable coins.
 Yeah, that's exactly right.
 I would say Aave and I mean, Spark now has kind of a mix of different yield sources.
 But Aave, for example, the borrowers are probably skew a little bit more like retail or DeFi
 whales, so they're very comfortable with smart contracts housing their collateral, whereas
 for our clientele, often they might be sitting on native BTC.
 And so if you look at like an institutional borrower, let's say they're an asset manager,
 they don't want to wrap their BTC.
 They view that as like a taxable event or their accountants do.
 So it's going to cost them taxes.
 And then they typically won't be comfortable with smart contract risk for their collateral.
 So if you look at our model, we send out all of the loans on chain, so they're all done
 through smart contracts.
 But the collateral, we actually are integrated with custodians and with institutional wallets
 like fire blocks or Porto.
 So you can give us native BTC as collateral, and then we'll send you a USDC loan throughout
 smart contracts.
 But you're not actually taking smart contract risk on your collateral, and you don't have
 to wrap it.
 And so we find that those institutions will typically pay a little bit more to work with
 us, because they just prefer those mechanisms.
 And from a compliance perspective, they're more comfortable with the counterparty risk.
 And the other element I'd say is we don't do automatic 100% liquidations.
 So if you're an institution borrowing from us, you're not going to find that if there's
 a wick on a wick in the price of Bitcoin or ETH, you're going to get 100% liquidated.
 We send you a margin call, you have 12 hours to post.
 And then it's only if the price continues to drop, or if you don't respond to that margin
 call, that we would liquidate you at that point.
 So it's much-- people are not going to get fired for that, whereas if they put the money
 in a smart contract and they get fine, they get liquidated overnight, it's much harder
 for them to justify.
 It's really interesting.
 You're combining--
 A hybrid.
 Yeah, you're like a hybrid kind of DeFi, CFI, custodial, non-custodial protocol.
 And it seems like this is what institutions are comfortable doing at this point.
 Can you talk more about how institutions are using DeFi?
 Are they getting more comfortable, like the transition that you've seen kind of in the
 years doing this?
 What types of users you're seeing now versus what you had seen before?
 How has that evolution been on institutional interest in using DeFi, even if this kind
 of is like a hybrid DeFi protocol?
 Yeah, I think it's a good question.
 And I can give a little bit of wider color as well as to what other protocols institutions
 are using.
 Marketmakers have always been kind of very forward in DeFi like our original borrowers
 back in 2021 and 2022.
 Marketmakers were quite comfortable taking out loans from DeFi.
 What I would say has changed is that more and more institutions are now comfortable either
 integrating with DeFi or connecting their clients with DeFi.
 So if you look, I think the most interesting recent use case is probably Coinbase linking
 up with Morpho and allowing their customers to wrap BTC and CBBTC and then deploy it into
 a smart contract and borrow from a Morpho pool.
 So I'd say that kind of yes, Coinbase is already a Web3 native institutions, but it did indicate
 a degree of appetite that we just hadn't seen back in 2022 or 2023 for that matter.
 And the other thing I would say is last year you saw folks like Kanto announced that they
 were interested in BTC back lending and indeed a couple of other credit funds or credit asset
 managers kind of hinted that they might provide BTC back lending products.
 So I think that indicates again, kind of more general comfort with the space.
 I would say where there's holdups at the moment is I don't think any of those players will
 be connecting with smart contracts that's still very difficult for them from a compliance
 perspective.
 They're just worried about hacks or security risk, particularly following things like the
 Bybit hack, but they are comfortable lending against crypto collateral and with the general
 concept of crypto backed lending and DeFi lending.
 So I think that's where we have seen real advances over the last couple of years.
 And the other point I would make is I talk with a number of market makers and trading
 firms now and a lot of them are trading like hyper liquid perps and some of these other
 perps taxes.
 So I would say that's also something that just wasn't there, you know, going back three
 or four years two or three years.
 Goat network is the first sustainable BTC yield chain powered by decentralized sequencers
 using multi coin POS.
 Goat's mission is to transform BTC and doge from passive holdings into active, yield generating
 assets through one of a kind economic model that tokenizes sequencer revenues, unlocking
 the full potential of BTC, Fi and meme Fi in a way that's never been done before and creating
 new yield opportunities for Bitcoin and dogecoin holders, supply BTC or doge, earn BTC in perpetuity.
 It started through our user rewards onboarding portal one piece dot goat dot network.
 And when we say institutions, like, what exactly are you referring to?
 I said, like hedge funds, you mentioned family offices, like, like, what is in this instance,
 I'm talking about, you know, regulated asset managers, I think family offices have always
 been early adopters and they're almost like, you know, family offices as a category really
 blend very closely with high net worth.
 And they're typically early adopters.
 I think what we're not seeing is it's not banks.
 I would say there are two, you know, two kind of restricted in terms of regulatory controls
 as to what they're what they can do.
 And they've only just come out of, you know, policy gridlock with things like SAB 121.
 But what we're talking about here is like, think regulated professional asset managers
 and like regulated trading firms.
 So you know, canter is a canter is a good example of a firm that said they have appetite
 for BTC back to lending bit wise regulated $12 billion asset manager.
 They have the BTC ETF among other ETFs, but they made a deployment that they were able
 to announce about a month back.
 And so they're, you know, they're another example professional asset manager, but looking
 at on chain deployments and and indeed starting to get comfortable with that because they
 kind of view that this is the future of asset management is that it will go on chain.
 And then the other the other ones, you know, there's there's large market makers out there,
 whether it's like Hudson River, Tower, Jump, Jane Street and others.
 And some of these players, not necessarily one of those named ones, but some of these
 players are trading on, you know, on like hyper liquid perps.
 And so that's, you know, that's an example of high frequency trading firms who are generally
 very sophisticated using some of these on chain products.
 Super interesting.
 And again, in the case of lending the use cases, these asset managers are holding Bitcoin.
 And so they're they're looking for ways to get more yield out of that Bitcoin is that
 basically, you know, they're sort of like it might be a couple of things.
 So if you're a prime broker, you a lot often they have a long bias position in BTC.
 So they want to hold it.
 They might have accumulated unrealized gains and they they don't want to they don't want
 to have a capital gains event that they have to pay tax on.
 But they hold it because they can post it as collateral on different exchange venues.
 And so some of these players are they will post us Bitcoin so they can remain long Bitcoin,
 take dollars and then provide that as margin to their clients.
 So generally, what they need is like they're not asset poor.
 They're actually asset quite quite asset wealthy, but they're just cash poor.
 And so what they need to do is generate, you know, generate stablecoin balances from their
 BTC or their soul or their ETH holdings.
 And in some cases, like family offices, it might be that they want to make a long-term
 investment.
 And so they come to us to get a fixed rate fixed term loan and that they can put into
 real estate and not worry about the interest rate fluctuating, you know, 10% in volatile
 periods.
 And then trading firms.
 So liquid token firm might have a position that they have high conviction and let's say
 it's a soul or MKR or Sky or Ave, they might want to post it to us so they can borrow more
 dollars and then buy more of that position.
 Their alternative is using futures or perps for that type of thing, but that can be expensive
 and then you have a risk of liquidation on those on those assets, whereas here it can
 be, you know, working with us can be a good strategy if you one don't want to pay as much
 of the way of funding cost or you don't want to, you know, don't want to worry about short-term
 liquidation risk.
 And then the other type of firm would be an on-chain yield fund.
 So they might be doing looping strategy through Morpho or on Pendle and they want to borrow
 from us to put dollars into that yield strategy because it pays them more than what the cost
 of borrowing from us is.
 So I know that there was like a few different use case, but kind of it is kind of varied.
 Yeah, you mentioned kind of the one of the last hold-ups is from banks or at least those
 are like the biggest institutions that are not playing with DeFi.
 Do you think that, you know, the fact that with regulations just, you know, changing and
 banks are now able to custody crypto and, you know, there are, obviously the regulatory
 environment is a lot friendlier and, and yeah, you see kind of the repeal of these bills
 that made it impossible for banks to deal with crypto now, you know, that's gone.
 So do you see that changing sooner or is it still too far from what banks do to kind of
 start playing with DeFi or do you think kind of with the regulations that I've just changed
 aside enough or would you still kind of see more changes needed down the line?
 More changes being needed.
 That's a good question and I think my gut feel is that it is going to be a number of
 years before we see banks kind of doing much more in the space.
 That being said, I know a couple of community banks that are looking at lending against
 Bitcoin.
 So if they were to successfully do that and get the charters for it, then I think they
 would be very early adopters.
 But I think one of the issues that banks will struggle with is that they rely on, they have
 to hold risk capital, right, which is set by Basel Committee and then adopted in every
 jurisdiction around the world.
 And so to let like to lend the interest rate in the collateral that they're required to
 take depends on how the asset is treated under the under those risk, risk capital requirements.
 And so that's like turning the Titanic.
 You have Basel 3, you've got to get to Basel 4, they have to determine how risky loans
 against Bitcoin are.
 And I think banks might be able to get into the space through partnering with people like
 us who could securitize those assets and that allows them to consider them kind of like
 high quality liquid assets, which gets them better risk treatment.
 So I think them doing it directly, it's going to be a very tough kind of string to draw.
 But I am kind of concerned with them as competitors because I can't compete with a JP Morgan's
 cost of capital.
 So how we have to think about is we have to kind of remain nimble, on board clients
 quickly provide quick service and turn around and offer kind of bespoke terms.
 I see our competitors as being folks like Ares and Apollo, it's private credit asset
 managers, because that's really the space that crypto backed lending is growing into.
 It's kind of like a very small initial wedge that will grow to kind of be more and more
 of private credit.
 And then firms like us, it's kind of this innovators dilemma thing.
 We're starting with a market, they consider trash and unattractive.
 But if you can sustainably grow that, then we gradually move up market and they find
 that they're going to struggle to compete on speed and cost.
 Why was this sector considered trash?
 Well, by them, I remember reading in one of the Ares, you know, as one of the Ares quarterly
 insight reports at the end of 2022, you know, they were kind of like sort of dancing on
 the grave of crypto post FTX and saying, you know, Bitcoin is not good collateral.
 And that, you know, only a fool would consider lending against crypto as an asset class.
 I think, you know, it's it's a, you know, trillion Bitcoin itself is a trillion dollar
 plus asset class.
 And crypto itself is more than a trillion dollar asset class.
 It's no different to lending against a stock in my view.
 You know, if you look, there are a number of stocks that trade on the NASDAQ that have
 negative earnings, but you would still advance a margin line against them, Bitcoin trades
 over 50 billion a day, 24/7, I can liquidate at 2am on a Sunday if I want.
 And so I think I think they I think they got that wrong about the asset class, but they
 are credit people's they're naturally paid to be skeptical.
 But I think, you know, it's classic sort of innovators dilemma.
 None of them are disrupting themselves.
 I think the closest to doing some of this stuff and the furthest along is definitely
 Apollo, where they're they're actually tokenizing some of their funds.
 But none of these guys are doing loans against crypto at the moment.
 And I think they're missing out on an attractive market.
 And you know, it's kind of our job to, to, to grow that and try and take the lead there.
 Okay.
 And so for you, you are worried or, or working to move fast and lead that market before they,
 they get in.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Exactly.
 And if you just did a kind of assessment of the market, let's say that there's a trillion
 dollars of, of Bitcoin and more if you count the other asset classes, but I think that
 is an eminently attractive asset class loans against Bitcoin for institutional investors,
 like insurance companies, pension funds, endowments to hold as a highly liquid credit investment
 or fixed income allocation.
 It's short duration, you can get your money back in less than 30 days.
 It's over collateralized with an asset that trades around the world 24/7.
 And it pays better than, you know, it pays like a yield commensurate with investment grade
 or high yield bonds, but without the duration and, and kind of less of the, the counterparty
 risk because of how much reliance you can place on the collateral.
 So I think the idea of tokenizing that, and you can have a, you can, you can create similar
 to what you did with like the residential mortgage backed securities market.
 You can create a standardized formula where it's like 70% LTV loan against Bitcoin, open
 term Bitcoin is held in qualified custody, and you could sell billions of dollars of
 that to institutional investors as like a money market plus type fixed income instrument.
 So I think, I think that the addressable market is, is, you know, tens, if not hundreds
 of billions of this stuff as, as, as we, you know, as, as we move forward.
 Cause right now, I think the tokenized funds that have gained most traction are the like
 treasury bill funds, right?
 But these like structured products are really interesting.
 How big is that market?
 Like I, I, I, I'm not sure if like if you're already doing it and if like that's taking
 off or kind of what's the status with, I think structured products will pick up.
 I think the reason that the tokenized table stuff is not picked up is that you can pick
 up the phone and call Morgan Stanley and get a pretty good substitute for that product.
 Same with a lot of the tokenized equities and, and tokenized bonds and tokenized funds,
 other, you know, credit fund structures.
 And so who are you selling to?
 I don't think the marginal buyer is on chain saying, Hey, I really need to get that black
 rock fund or I need to get that Hamilton Lane fund.
 I think most of those buyers are off chain and traditional finance.
 What's a better selling point is, Hey, you can't call Morgan Stanley and get this product.
 You can't call Morgan Stanley and get, you know, get a basket of loans backed by Bitcoin
 or the yield from those loans.
 And that's effectively what we're packaging and selling to, to allocators.
 They lend to us and we, we put their funds into, um, into those types of loans.
 And I think if, you know, if we can create an install wrapper for that that can be easily
 consumed, I think they will buy that because they can't buy it from competitors.
 I think you always have to kind of go where you have a differentiated edge.
 The PR genius is a top crypto PR and growth marketing agency, helping brands globally
 with expert PR and strategic growth marketing.
 They've worked with 300 plus projects like movement labs and IO.net.
 Unlike traditional agencies, they charge only on performance.
 Their services include earned PR opportunities and marketing services to help boost wallet
 holders and organic ex followers.
 Learn more at www.the PR genius.com and then sorry, Kami, there was, there was a second
 part to that question.
 No, no, just, I was just asking on kind of the like what the market for like these structured
 products and how big is it?
 Yeah.
 I mean, structured products do 10, like, you know, hundreds of billions a year.
 We've tried a structured product this year where we had a yield product where you got
 a four, four percent floor.
 And then if Bitcoin ripped, you could get up to 33 percent by using a call spread on
 top of the over collateralized loans.
 So it's like, it was similar to a structured note.
 We, um, we got about a bit under 10 mil of interest in that.
 Um, so I think that's still nascent and that kind of product space needs to evolve.
 But on the, like the BTC back loans, like how big could that get and how big could general
 crypto back loans get?
 Even if you said only 10% of, um, of Bitcoin, let's say 10% of Bitcoin, um, could be borrowed
 against or holders have appetite to borrow.
 That's a hundred billion.
 And then if you can do 70% LTV loans against that, that's 70 billion dollars of lending
 that you could do.
 If you contrast that, I would say the space at the moment, excluding DeFi is probably
 less than, you know, it's less than five billion in terms of crypto backed loans outstanding.
 And if you include DeFi and, um, other sovereigns who might be borrowing, then I think you get
 ticked like closer to 10 bill, but that's still a fraction of what we're talking about
 in terms of total addressable opportunity 2022, the, the, the lending crypto lending
 market was 55 bill.
 So we're still, you know, we're still less than 20% of, um, of, of, uh, of what we were,
 you know, three years ago in size.
 Oh, that's interesting that we still, I, I thought we were already, and the leverage
 in the system is much lower than it was back in 2022.
 Why do you think that is?
 I mean, I know like the market has been volatile this year, but you know, we, we, we had a,
 a decent kind of bull phase recently. Yeah, why, why do you think that DeFi and kind
 of the lending space hasn't been able to overtake like the previous highs?
 I think the market structure has shifted.
 And so if you look at participants who were active in the last cycle, so BlockFi, Genesis,
 Celsius, the role that they played in the market structure was to act kind of similar
 to banks.
 And what I mean by that is that they provided a velocity for stablecoins and for other assets
 to kind of move around the DeFi ecosystem.
 So you're a retail consumer.
 You put your money with Celsius, Celsius can lend it out over collateralized or under collateralized
 to somebody.
 It could be like a fund or institutional borrower.
 You know, they, they then use it to purchase tokens or they invest in a project, um, and
 then it becomes a treasury deposit or treasury savings.
 But if it were, what I think was happening was that it was working its way through the
 crypto economy and you're having a multiplicative effect.
 Let's just say consumer deposits with BlockFi, BlockFi lends to Alameda or FTX and then
 FTX uses that to then, you know, place more money or purchase collateral that they post
 to Genesis or to avoid or somebody else, but you had the system was very much, was much
 more interconnected back then.
 And so a dollar was actually being counted more than once around the system.
 And because you had those companies, so BlockFi, Celsius, acting as aggregators for retail
 deposits who were then originating credit, the degree of leverage in the system could
 get much higher because those retail depositors wouldn't other things equal.
 They're not in the system today making unclateralized loans, whereas when their deposits went to
 a Celsius, Celsius could then make an unclateralized loan using that deposit and that created just
 much more leverage within the system.
 Right.
 And so the market structure has totally changed today.
 We don't have those retail aggregators and we don't have anyone originating unclateralized
 credit in sites today.
 Mm.
 That's so interesting.
 You're right.
 Yeah, all the CFI lenders, obviously, collapsed or went bust, yeah, they were in many cases,
 you know, tight to a media and in other cases, like Celsius, not kind of disclosing exactly
 what they were doing with loans, like taking too much risk.
 Yeah, like Celsius could have, you know, Celsius in some cases was taking a deposit and then
 putting it in a DeFi protocol, yeah, like they, you know, they had significant holdings
 of like Rhapsody, they were significant participants in some of the Uniswap and other L people.
 So that money was working its way from their deposit base back into the DeFi ecosystem.
 And, and then it was being used for, you know, DeFi yields, launching new protocols, providing
 liquidity to other protocols, but the velocity of money was, was just much faster than.
 And also they had similar to how banks have today, like banks have a lot of overnight repo
 deposits with each other.
 Some of these larger lenders had overnight repo type facilities with each other.
 And so money was very interconnected between them.
 So interesting, right?
 So we don't have that CFI lenders breeds to DeFi anymore.
 And no, if you look at the largest CFI lenders today, so you have Leaden Galaxy Coinbase or
 some of the larger ones doing it, but you can check their financial reports, right?
 So Galaxy and Galaxy and Coinbase are in the order of like call it 400 to 700 or 400 to
 800 million in terms of loan book, whereas you contrast that at its height, Celsius was
 26 billion.
 So these are vastly different scales of lending operations that are going on today.
 We will grow because I think, you know, lending is an integral part of any kind of, you know,
 financial ecosystem, but, you know, the space was so, you know, shocked after 2022 that
 it's taken a long time to get back there.
 And, you know, we're, we're among one of the larger ones with kind of 800 million assets
 on the platform and close to 300 million in loans outstanding.
 But even, you know, even, even we are still like a kind of a fraction of what those institutions
 were last cycle.
 But I think it will grow over time.
 Where do you think growth is going to come from?
 It has to come from new entrants to the space.
 So the key drivers, stable coin issuance, like you can't, like most of us are lending
 predominantly in stablecoins.
 And so we need more stablecoin.
 As more stablecoins get minted, that supply has to go somewhere.
 And so it either goes to centralized exchanges or people keep it on their private wallets
 or they put it in DeFi or they can give it to lending businesses like us or like, you
 know, like a lead in or an arch or some of these others.
 And so that would be a big driver of growth.
 And I think, but the other thing is if we can't count on retail coming back in, you have
 to count on institutions.
 And so I look at some of these big traditional finance balance sheets who have expressed interest
 in crypto back lending, whether it's canter or, you know, some private credit asset managers.
 And they like when they come in, they come in in size.
 And so I think that's going to be another key to scaling.
 And then the other thing I think is like, if we get a market structure bill, asset managers
 will be more comfortable kind of, you know, interacting with, with crypto, you know, on
 chain asset management products like where, you know, like we are trying to be.
 Can you talk more broadly about why both like institutions or retail would want to use
 blockchains for this, like what's the blockchain advantage to lending?
 It's very rare that people pick up and use a new product just because the technology
 is really cool.
 That's like, like if you look at the kind of the hype cycle, that's like the super early
 adopters.
 That's not kind of the bulk of the market.
 The bulk of the market picks it up when you can kind of offer something they can't get
 elsewhere or that's like better, faster or cheaper.
 So if you look, traditional firms won't lend you stablecoins.
 So I think if you want to go, like if you're a crypto native firm and you want to go and
 trade on a centralized exchange, you're actually better off just getting stablecoins rather
 than getting fiat.
 There's also a distinct lack of supply of lending against crypto coming from traditional,
 you know, traditional finance.
 So I think just a lack of other options is kind of also driving people, you know, towards
 solutions like us.
 But how does it scale?
 Well, for us, if you're, if you're a trading firm in Japan and you want, and you've got
 some Bitcoin and you want to borrow, well, if you want to borrow a US dollar facility,
 there's nobody else who can provide you this, you have to borrow stablecoins.
 It's going to be, it's going to take you forever to access a US dollar facility through some
 other means in, in fiat.
 And so the fact that we can settle with that firm, you know, within an hour, if we wanted
 and we could do that at 2 a.m. on a Sunday, like really, we can settle 24/7 and settle
 with clients in other countries.
 I think that reach of stablecoins is very persuasive and same for allocators and investors.
 If you want to, you know, if you want to access our yield product, you can just connect to
 the app, you on board and then you can deposit straight away through your, through your wallet.
 You don't have to go through like a multi-day process to try and wire us funds.
 And so we can, we can offer lower costs because of that, because we're able to move faster
 and, and reach clients, you know, kind of anywhere in the world.
 Right. Eventually, you know, do you think about, oh, sorry, one, one more thing.
 I think the liquidity over time, the fact that you can tokenize these and then shift
 your positions by just as easily as shifting tokens, I think is going to be really persuasive
 for sophisticated asset managers who have, particularly if they have to manage large
 portfolios, the fact that they could take, you know, a lending position, use it as collateral
 somewhere or that they can easily shift it or sell it on the OTC market.
 I think it's going to count for a lot over time.
 You know, like, you would, you would think that having access to products that you can't
 get in, in trad by like stablecoin loans or, or borrowing against crypto and 24/7 liquidity
 and just like, you know, faster and cheaper transactions, what, what will that result in?
 Like, do you see all of lending moving on chain or is it going to be, you know, like,
 just like more of like a crypto native economy, like maybe we'll see more asset managers that
 are focused on crypto with, with managing treasuries of crypto startups and, you know,
 just like, just like a crypto native economy that's already emerging, that that's going
 to become bigger and that will be the, the, the majority of, of kind of where we see this
 market going or do you see more of like, we will have this crypto native market but the,
 like, non-crypto natives will also move on chain.
 It's a good question.
 I think I'm very bullish on this space.
 My answer is I think all of this moves on chain over time and the question is just what
 time horizon does that look like?
 I think five years is probably too soon but I think the progress that we make between
 five years and 10 years is going to surprise a lot of people and so, you know, I would
 be surprised in 10 years if you're not settling a lot of, like, if a lot of, you know, conventional
 financial and capital markets activity is not being settled using stablecoins.
 I mean, you know, even just thinking like the convention from tradfi, right, of T plus
 two, well, stablecoins, it's T, you know, it's T zero, it's, it's instant.
 I, you know, I've, I've kind of seen this firsthand, like, I come from Australia and
 so, you know, I wanted to send some money back to my brother the other day and so I was
 asking, well, you know, can you just give me a USDC, an address and I'll send you a USDC
 and he was like, no, no, no, I need, I need, I need fiat in a bank account.
 Okay.
 Well, then I've got to like off-ramp money.
 I've got to type in a routing code, a swift code and, and then it's going to take
 it.
 And then I'm going to get, you know, I'm going to get cheated on the forex phase and it's
 going to take three days to reach him.
 Like it's just a much better experience of like, hey, text, you know, text me your, your
 wallet address and I'll send you a USDC.
 So now imagine that at scale in business, when there's actual an opportunity cost of
 foregone revenues by having to wait three days for that money.
 And you can see, you know, just, just like the rise of high frequency trading firms, the
 amount of usage and transacting that can occur when you can settle instantly and anywhere
 in the world is going to dramatically increase.
 I think it's like a, it's like Jefferson's law or something, but as the cost and speed
 of something involves like the usage exponentially grows.
 Add up to 20% APY on ETH with the high growth vault by KELP in one click.
 High gain uses blue chip DeFi strategies with RS ETH across AVE, PENDLE, usual, and
 elixir managed by strategy pros ultra yield and up shift to deliver highest rewards on
 ETH, all in just one click deposit your ETH, receive HGE and stay liquid in DeFi.
 Trade or use HGE on platforms like PENDLE and Valancer while still stacking rewards.
 Follow along these steps to get started.
 Let's talk about your, like, more specific to maple products.
 So we talked about how you have this new kind of retail focused product syrup.
 I also know that your token maple is also now being swept to syrup.
 I don't know, like, if you can talk about kind of all that kind of transition.
 Syrup USDC is the permissionless yield product that we have.
 So that's available to retail users outside of the US, but also protocols that want to
 use us.
 So, you know, PENDLE is in there, Mofo has integrated us as collateral, and folks are
 using it in their looping strategies, and then maker or sky, I should say, also recently
 made a deposit this week to that product.
 So that's yield coming from institutional loans, permissionless token moves around DeFi.
 Late last year, we migrated our governance token, and this is the governance token for
 the network, and I think an important thing to note about it is maple doesn't have an
 equity entity that kind of sits behind things.
 It's just the token.
 So the token controls the network.
 The single token that we have is Syrup, which we migrated to from MPL last year, and we
 did that because the Dow treasury needed to raise more funding, and so it needed to issue
 more tokens after 2023.
 You know, nobody plans to go through a bear market when you initially set a fixed supply
 of tokens, but to continue building the network, we needed to issue more tokens, and so that's
 why we migrated to Syrup.
 Syrup's the sole token that kind of ties together all of our products.
 So maple, you know, our institutional strategies, Syrup, USDC, the permissionless one, and indeed
 now our Bitcoin yield product.
 If you stake it, you can participate in voting, and we've actually also done a buyback.
 So of 20% of protocol fees and protocol fees at the moment are between, call it like, five
 to six million, kind of annualized, and so the community voted to spend 20% of what we
 are in in a quarter, buying back the token as a kind of an example of utility and rewarding
 folks for staking and participating in governance.
 I think that's going to be really interesting this year, because you've got a lot of L1s and
 L2s that are kind of zombie chains now that don't have a lot of usage and aren't generating
 real revenues.
 So I think a lot of folks will look to kind of turn on protocol fees and have buybacks
 for their token.
 And you know, for us, it's kind of, it all goes towards the staking yields, which is currently
 about 3.7% if you're staking the token.
 Interesting.
 And is the only or like main use case of the syrup token governance?
 Yeah, it's primarily governance.
 Some of the interesting things we've looked at is like whether, you know, whether you
 could get discounted fees, so you'd be able to earn a higher yield if you're staking,
 or whether it could give you access to some insurance protection against defaults.
 I think the protocol needs to get bigger before those use cases start to become feasible,
 but we're kind of always thinking about how utility can be added to the token.
 But primarily, it's governance for the time being.
 Got it.
 And I guess, you know, that's just an interesting takeaway from your experience with the token.
 You know, as a founder, like people, you know, building in DeFi, if, you know, the token
 is kind of your main asset, then it's good to have that flexibility to be able to issue
 down the line, to be able to raise with the token down the line.
 Yeah, I think so.
 I think that the token helps incentivize staff.
 It helps with fundraising.
 It also helps with partnerships and customer acquisition.
 So you can do points, programs.
 And I think, you know, that's something that's kind of interesting and only available, you
 know, for a token project.
 You know, AWS wasn't giving out ownership of AWS, the network.
 When they started, nor was Facebook, but it would have been interesting if they could
 have done that for early users.
 And Uber tried doing that for some of their early drivers, but they were blocked because
 it's just too cumbersome when you have a private, you know, private equity, whereas it becomes
 possible when you have a token network.
 So I think that's, I think that's a really interesting way to kind of bootstrap businesses
 and networks.
 And then you can also do, you know, like partnership deals.
 So if you're partnering with another protocol, you can do a token swap.
 So I think it gives you a lot of versatility.
 It's not without its downside because the token can fluctuate wildly with the vicissitudes
 of the market and, and, and so that can, that can be kind of a cause of distraction for
 a lot of teams.
 You can have issues where teams, teams and founders and things are kind of dumping their
 token.
 On the market, as we've recently seen with a couple of launches, and I think that creates
 a lot of bad blood or bad energy around, around teams.
 And it's, and it's kind of like a, it's a, it's a temptation of greed, right?
 But I think, you know, our tokens been around for over four years.
 And I think we've always tried to be transparent.
 We put out quarterly treasury reports as to how we're spending, you know, how funds are
 being spent most of the token circulating.
 So it's not like, it's not like one of those, you know, 10 to 15% low float projects that's
 trying to, you know, that, that's, that's trying to, to impact the FDV.
 Most of the token circulating, it's been around for four years.
 And then the team still holds a, a hefty, you know, hefty proportion of the token.
 And our interests are aligned because there is not an equity entity collecting all of
 the revenues, it's, you know, it's, it's really, you know, treated as, treated as being, um,
 for the benefit of token holders.
 It's really interesting, um, this decision of not having an equity entity, um, yeah,
 like what was your thinking around that on like how, you don't know, like how, how do
 you structure your, your business that way because like, I think like most DeFi protocols
 have like the, like equity company, like a labs or something, and then like the foundation
 that runs a protocol, um, but like having no, like centralized equity company, um, is,
 is like a, I don't know, especially with, with like a hybrid DeFi protocol.
 We have, um, yeah, and maybe just to kind of to clarify and kind of frame, um, frame
 that, uh, we have LLCs that we use for kind of operations you, you need to, like you can't
 enter contracts with people without people in other businesses without LLCs.
 We have a Cayman foundation that's kind of like the top of everything.
 And that's really, it's a memberless foundation that's kind of acting for the benefit of, uh,
 of token holders in its charter.
 So what we did, what we didn't do is we never raised equity into an entity and, and, and
 sold that to, um, to, you know, to, to, to venture funds.
 Um, they always just participated by, you know, by purchasing the token and, um, we're able
 to do that because we came through in 2020.
 And so there was a big emphasis around Dow raises at the times.
 We kind of just did treated that as the initial way that, um, that the network raised, raised
 funding to begin operations, whereas now I think if you were doing it, you'd probably
 have a tougher time doing that.
 But I think it also creates issues, right?
 Like, you know, you saw in 2022 or 2023, D Y DX was earning a lot of fee revenue.
 And was that going to labs or was that going to D Y DX token holders?
 And there was a big spat about it with, with some liquid funds that, um, that held the
 token.
 Whereas here there is no conflict.
 Yeah, no, I think that's a good point to, to consider for, you know, people, founders
 should consider it.
 Like your, your cap structure is, is important.
 And also the distribution and the, and the ownership of the network is, is important.
 We, we, we, we talked about, you know, all these Bitcoin products and you recently mentioned
 a partnership with core would love to hear more about that.
 Yeah.
 So, uh, one of the products that we've been super excited about that we recently launched
 in the last two months was a Bitcoin yield product.
 And for us, this is being done in partnership with core down.
 So they're a proof of stake, um, Bitcoin L two and, um, or L one, I should say, but either
 way, um, the product we're offering with them is you provide Bitcoin.
 Um, we stake it, dual stake it with the core governance token.
 And this generates rewards that are converted into Bitcoin yield for holders.
 So what it looks like to, uh, to a lender who's using it or a customer vows is they put
 in Bitcoin and they get back Bitcoin yield that's, uh, that's liquid and, um, it comes
 from staking.
 So there's very, like there's very little counterparty risk.
 If we're not out there lending it out, um, and, uh, I think the other, the other aspects
 of this, so they're interesting is that there's no, there's no slashing risk on, on your staked
 Bitcoin and, uh, you can do it through a custodian.
 So the Bitcoin we take ultimately sits in Bitco and, uh, and copper at the moment.
 So it's sitting in these qualified custodians, um, rather, you know, rather than being deposited
 into a smart contract where it could be exploited.
 So I think those angles make this a very appealing product for institutions.
 And I think this product overall, you know, it's been yielding in the kind of the four
 to six percent range, um, annualized, which is kind of, you know, it's, it's pretty far
 ahead of what you can get elsewhere.
 But the other aspect of the product that's interesting is that all institutions when they
 come to the crypto space are going straight to Bitcoin.
 So whenever I talk to the folks covering institutions at Coinbase or Galaxy or others, their new
 clients are looking to buy, to go straight to buying Bitcoin.
 And the natural next step for them is, you know, can I borrow against this Bitcoin?
 And that's our, you know, that's our lending product.
 Um, or could I get a yield on the Bitcoin since it's sitting there in this custodian?
 I think that's where, you know, this, this, this is a great product to have and, and to
 be able to offer them and, um, interest, you know, despite the fact that Bitcoin's been
 around now for 15 years, we're still so early in the, um, degree of penetration that it
 has as an asset class.
 Um, and so I see this product as being extremely interesting for, for institutions and we have
 a good partnership with core.
 So that product's grown to about 60 mil in TVL in the first two months, and we continue
 to see pretty strong institutional interest in it.
 Well, that's so interesting and, and, um, yeah, it makes sense that, you know, institutions
 on Bitcoin first and so, yeah, they'll want kind of Bitcoin related products.
 But yeah, they, they, and it's a diversified thing.
 You can offer them when the markets kind of flat.
 Mm hmm.
 Yeah.
 So anyway, I think, um, we're, we're very bullish on, on Bitcoin structured products
 and Bitcoin yield products for the, uh, for the rest of this year.
 Yeah.
 It's been interesting to see Bitcoin defying, uh, yeah, take off or, or, or develop real
 resurgence.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 100%.
 And you know, you can see this year, there's like, there's half a dozen new Bitcoin L2s
 or L1s that are coming to market, whether it's Babylon, Lombard, build on Bitcoin.
 Um, there's, yeah, there, there's about half a dozen.
 And it's interesting.
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 And then to, to wrap up, what's, what's coming up for Maple?
 Like what are the next milestones that you're excited about that you're working on?
 Well, I think that for us, the biggest one is, um, is getting that TVL to the, to the
 billions.
 So we, we, we, you know, we want to continue to kind of cross the old time highs from, from
 loss cycle.
 And, um, so we're looking at kind of three of the key things we're working on.
 On the Bitcoin side, we want to get a liquid staking token out.
 So that's the big focus for the next two months.
 And that will allow trading firms to post it as collateral, use it in DeFi.
 So we see a lot of, a lot of application there.
 On the syrup side, we're trying to get that more, we want to, we want to get syrup across
 on Solana.
 So syrup, USDC, um, so we're very bullish on kind of what I would say is like an emerging
 yield system there.
 There's been a lot of trading, but there hasn't previously been a big focus on yield.
 Um, in the ecosystem there.
 So we, we want to get across there.
 We, we, we think very highly of the ecosystem.
 And then on the insta side, we are talking with a number of trad fi players around getting
 up what I would call a wholesale facility so that we can grow the business.
 So that's kind of like the number one focus in each of those three categories, but it's
 just a lot to, to execute on this year, but our TVL goal for end of the year is, is four
 billion TVL.
 So we need to hit all three of those initiatives to do that.
 Awesome.
 Well, yeah, they, they all sound really exciting and we'll definitely be watching and covering
 at the defiant.
 And hopefully, you know, end of the year we'll, we'll have you on again, uh, talk about
 how you reach that four billion.
 Would love that.
 Would love that gives me, gives me a lot to shoot for now.
 Amazing.
 Um, awesome.
 Well, thanks for having me on.
 Thanks for joining.
 No, no, you're welcome.
 Thanks for having me.
 Thanks for joining us.
