TITLE: Euler: The DeFi Super App - Michael Bentley. Ep. 615
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVMR-jeHxSg
VIDEO_ID: ZVMR-jeHxSg

TRANSCRIPT:
Early lending and borrowing protocols were mistricts and just like the short tail of
 assets. So like ETH and USDC and Bitcoin. So we started building Euler as like an integration
 with Uniswap at the time actually to enable people to lend and borrow not just the short
 tail but also the long tail of assets. If you get liquidated on Euler, because it's a fair
 auction, the bonus tends to be basically the fair market rate. Like however much it should
 cost to do the liquidation, push a little bit extra. The actual cost of it might be a few hundred
 dollars, whereas the cost of it on another platform might be able to treat hundreds of thousands or
 millions of dollars. When the tap is draining protocol, a lot of the assets come back in terms
 of like USDC or USTT, right, and circle and tether. If they get requests from law enforcement or they
 know that funds are clearly being stolen, they have the ability to put freezes on assets. A lot of
 attackers will just effectively auto-comvert any stolen funds into ETH or an asset that's
 like more decentralized and more difficult to kind of freeze basically. So that's what this guy did.
 The recovery period where we were tracking down and negotiating the recovery, the price of ETH
 rallied. And so actually it was kind of like the attack upon a long position on behalf of all of our
 users. Welcome to Epicenter. The show is talks about the technologies, projects and people driving
 key centralization in the blockchain revolution. I'm Ryan Craig and today I'm speaking with Michael
 Bentley, who is the CEO and co-founder of Euler Labs, Euler Finance, which is a very innovative
 DeFi lending protocol. So I'm really excited to talk with Michael about that. So just before we
 get started, we'd like to share a few words from our sponsors this week. If you're looking to stake
 your crypto with confidence, look no further than Chorus 1. More than 150,000 delegators,
 including institutions like BitGo, Pantera Capital and Ledger, trust Chorus 1 with their assets.
 They support over 50 blockchains and are leaders in governance or networks like
 Cosmos Ensuring Your Stake is responsibly managed. Thanks to their advanced MEV research, you can
 also enjoy the highest staking rewards. You can stake directly from your preferred wallet,
 set up a white label note, restake your assets on eigenneo or symbiotic or use the SDK for multi-chain
 staking in your app. Learn more at chorus.1 and start staking today. Hey guys, I want to
 tell you about Gnosis, a collective of builders creating real tools for real people on the open
 internet. Gnosis has been around since 2015. In fact, it started as one of Ethereum's very first
 projects and today it's grown into a whole ecosystem designed to make open finance actually work for
 everyday people. At the center of it all is Gnosis Chain. It's a low cost, highly decentralized layer
 one that's compatible with Ethereum and secured by over 300,000 validators. So whether you're building
 a DAP, experimenting with EFI, or working on autonomous agents, Gnosis Chain gives you a solid
 neutral foundation to build on. But Gnosis is more than just infrastructure. It's also tools that
 people can actually use. Like circles, for example, let's anyone issue their own digital currency
 through networks of trust, not banks. And then there's Metri. It's their smart contract wallet
 that makes it easy to access circles, manage group currencies, and even spend anywhere Visa has
 accepted thanks to their integration with Gnosis Pay. All this is governed by Gnosis Dow, where
 anyone can propose, vote, and help guide the network. And if you want to get involved, running a
 validator is super easy. All you need is one GNO and some basic hardware. To learn more and start
 building on the open internet, head to gnosis.io. Gnosis, building the open internet, one block at a
 time. Cool. Thanks so much for coming on, Michael. I'm really excited and looking forward to this one.
 Here is, tell us maybe a little bit about yourself and how did you get into crypto first?
 Yeah. So first, thanks for having me on. Looking forward to it. How did I get involved? Well,
 I used to be before before this life. I used to be a research scientist. I used to be an academic.
 My specialism was evolutionary gain theory. So I used to do lots of population modeling of
 biological systems and how they change over time effectively. I was more on the math side, but I
 used to collaborate a lot with computer scientists, biologists, and other people. I started as a bit
 of a script of skeptic when I first said about it in 2015. Didn't think it sounded very cool. I
 just mistook it, mistook Ethereum for some kind of boring database solution or something. I wasn't
 interested. But by 2017, maybe late 2016, early 2017, the markets had got a bit frothy and I got
 drawn in at that time and started, I think later that year, I started building trading bots and
 things for some of the primitive decentralized exchanges a lot of times. There's something called
 IDEX that I used to trade on and eat the delta. I don't remember that one. These are like literal
 order books on Ethereum. So quite slow and quite plunky, but they were kind of like a good
 introduction to markets and how Ethereum works and stuff. And then, yeah, stuck around as things
 like deteriorated in terms of market conditions over the next few years and got more interested in
 a bunch of other stuff in 2019 and early 2020, like DeFi was sort of starting to emerge as like
 this kind of force to be reckoned with. It was like Unislop and Yern and things like that would
 becoming popular. And that's when I got sucked in and started studying interest rates and things.
 And so I actually started Euler off the back of doing hackathon project where I'd created a novel
 interest rate setting mechanism that was more decentralized for like less dependent on third
 parties than the ones that were being used on compound at the time.
 Well, it's the original vision for Euler.
 So we wanted to make something where you could lend and borrow any asset. A lot of the early
 lending and borrowing protocols were restricted to interest like the short tail of assets. So like
 ETH and USDC and Bitcoin, and maybe a handful of others. And yeah, I guess in my hackathon, I was
 sort of inspired by how do you set interest rates if you want to expand that set to like everything.
 And you need an interest rate model that can adapt over time and adapt itself. You don't want
 necessarily like a slow process of governance or third party like changing interest rate models.
 So we wanted to see could we could we let lending and borrowing happen for anything.
 And so we started building Euler as like an integration with Uniswap at the time actually.
 So Uniswap V2 had oracles for an inbuilt oracle for the value of assets. We plan to use that
 to enable people to lend and borrow not just the short tail, but also the long tail of assets
 create lending and borrowing markets for all of all things. Didn't actually work out like that.
 We had to pivot a few times as the project grew, but that was one of the early visions I think.
 Okay, okay. And then I'm curious, is this it sounds like something where maybe your evolutionary
 game theory was that background knowledge very applicable here?
 Oh, I mean massively, right? It's um, yeah, I mean, in that day job, you're often like,
 what was what was it actually doing? You know, how do you build these models? You like
 consider like a set of things or entities, people, biological organisms, and they're like kind of
 playing strategies in this big like competitive game and they interact a lot. And so you have
 to like model that out and think, you know, what would be the like equilibrium state of
 if you've got like two different entities playing different strategies, right? And that's very
 similar to what happens in markets, right? You have like lenders and borrowers, you have like
 people striving to like optimize profitability, optimize some kind of metric like risk adjusted
 return or whatever. And so, yeah, there's a huge amount of overlap in terms of designing a like a
 DeFi protocol that can facilitate like markets and designing a model about how how yeah populations
 change in response to their environment. It's yeah, if you just abstract everything, then it's
 actually very, very similar kind of task. So yeah, it was, yeah, definitely my background
 was very relevant to what I do now. So I imagine you're pretty unique among DeFi protocol founders
 having like that kind of perspective and background. Do you think that, you know, did that just help
 you maybe design or learn a little bit, you know, have better models for different risk events? Or
 do you think it also ended up, you know, just in a different protocol design because of that
 background you had? I think, yeah, I think it's, I mean, yeah, I mean, DeFi founders tend to come
 from really varied backgrounds, right? And then there's like trade offs having different
 to all those backgrounds, you know, like, I think famously, we're very like engineering driven,
 a lot of the things that we build are like really, really strong on the engineering front and well,
 like, well architected. And so we have like, very strong attention to detail to like low level
 processes and mechanisms and things. So like, for instance, liquidations on Euler, I think we
 have the best liquidation during in all of DeFi, a lot of, a lot of liquidations when they happen
 on other learning growing protocols. Effectively, the borrower just has like some of their collateral
 like slashed and sacrificed. And then that's used as a reward for the, the people that are
 performing in liquidations. And it's often really costly, really, really costly, especially if you're
 a big borrower, you got like, you know, tens of millions of dollars at risk. These bonuses, you
 know, this, these kind of slashings can be, and that can be worth like hundreds of thousands of
 dollars or millions of dollars. On Euler, we use, we use a different mechanism. So we don't take
 like a fixed amount of the collateral. Instead, we have this like auction that plays out. It's a
 Dutch auction that plays out on the bonus that's distributed. What's neat about that is that if
 you get liquidated on Euler, the, because it's a fair auction, the bonus tends to be basically the
 fair market rate, like however much it should cost to do the liquidation plus a little bit extra
 to kind of justify it. And so like the equivalent, if you're a large borrower in Euler and you get
 liquidated, the actual cost of it might be, I don't know, a few hundred dollars, whereas the cost of
 it on another platform might be literally hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars. And to that,
 just think that like process that like focus on auctions and how they can drive efficient
 outcomes, I think was very much driven by like who we are as builders at Euler, which is effectively
 just a team of engineers or scientists. Yeah. All of our backgrounds are like a strong influence
 over how Euler is architected, I think. Yeah, certainly, certainly always been a bit different
 to other platforms in that regard. And so the high level vision then where you guys ended up
 was basically like a lending protocol where you can borrow like any asset and use any asset as
 collateral. That's kind of the thing that was the, that was the original vision. And then as we,
 as we adapted, as we grow over time, we realized actually allowing anything to use this class all
 is there are other factors that come into play, right? Like even if you could do that, you need
 to find like counterparty, so we're willing to sit here the side of that trade. And the truth is
 that there's just not a market for that. Like there's, I'd love to use my like long tail mean coins
 or whatever that I've got in my wallet as collateral. But who wants to lend to that? Like who's going
 to take the other side of that trade? There's just not really anyone available. And it's kind of like,
 you know, the that's that's true in real life, right? Some some assets just make really good
 collateral and you can go to a bank and say you want to take our loan against a certain stock
 portfolio or so or a house or car or whatever. But but some things just, you know, don't make
 the good collateral, even though they're paper value might be quite high. I mean that they're
 strong collateral. So yeah, I think there were a lot of learnings we made in those early years
 as well about like actually those sort of things you can technically do, but whether or not they,
 they have like product market fit is a very different question.
 So if you kind of go back to, you know, sort of history boiler, right? So you talked about this
 hackathon and then how it evolved into this vision of having this, you know, very flexible lending
 protocol. I know at some point you guys had a big hack. I don't know when when did that
 or like can you tell a bit like how did things progress from that point onwards?
 Yeah, so we there was a there was a big exploit, unfortunately, and yeah, in 2023. So it was
 actually at the time when the oil protocol being like growing very rapidly and taking market
 share from incumbents at that time. Oil V1 was like a very, very heavily audited platform,
 like we've had more audits than most people. We, you know, we worked with Satora who do formal
 verification. We had the largest bug bounty of anyone in that kind of a vertical. So we took
 security really seriously. But what happened effectively was that we had this, we had this
 bug bounty open and somebody came and reported a pretty matte and a bug on oil. So there's this
 smaller, smaller issue that first deposit is in a bright, whenever you open a brand new market,
 the first deposit has some funds at risk. And because it was a funds at risk bug, we awarded
 them a bounty, a pretty small bounty because the amount of funds at risk wasn't huge. But
 because there were some funds at risk, our security partners, when we talked to them, said, yeah,
 you could probably fix this, right? So we developed the fix and it looked, it looked good on paper
 and we had it reordered it. So we were with our security partners, they audited the fix.
 But I think ultimately the fix, probably when you when you do a full audit the first time around,
 you're considering absolutely everything, you're not just looking at them, a small part of a
 protocol. And so when you know, full audits are fantastic, right? But when when they were auditing
 this smaller fix, and when we were developing this like solution for this much smaller issue,
 it was much more of a contained, you know, it was more like a focus on that thing.
 And then we weren't both ourselves and the auditors were when seeing that bigger like
 holistic vision. And it turns out that by developing that fix, we'd actually inadvertently
 introduced a much more fundamental error of much more fundamental issue into the protocol. And that's
 how nine months after we deployed that fix, somebody was able to come in and effectively
 exploit a large amount of funds and take a large amount of funds from what everyone
 which brought down the impotite protocol. What was that error that you guys introduced? So the
 solution to the problem, well, just very briefly, I mean, the problem itself was caused by an
 uninitialized exchange rate, the very very brand new markets created and there's no users yet or
 anything. There was one exchange rate between the receipt token and the deposits that was uninitialized.
 It turns out that for technical reasons, an exploiter could potentially front run a deposit
 if they set up a bot or something. They'd have to do quite a bit of work for it, but potentially
 they could like front run the first deposit and only that deposit and then use that to take some
 of the first deposits as funds. So the fix that we developed was well, you know, why don't we take
 the first deposits deposit? And we will, before they actually add the deposit to the account,
 we'll use like one way or like some really small amount of that deposit to initialize the exchange
 rate. So there was this function that added to the code base called donate to reserves and
 the donate to reserves function was only intended to be used as a way to initialize this exchange
 rate. And, you know, first deposits wouldn't even know it's happening. Now what it turns out,
 so what someone realized, unbeknownst to us, was that you could use donate to reserves as a borrower
 as you donate your collateral to the reserves. If you do it in some unique circumstances,
 you could drive yourself towards like a less collateralized position. And then if you can
 force yourself into a liquidatable state, you could then lose money and liquidate the account.
 And so you might be thinking, well, why would anyone want to lose money? It turns out, we remember
 we talked about as liquidation bonuses earlier, turns out that there was some like parameter space
 effectively where you could lose, lose less money on the liquidatable account than you could make
 as the person liquidating. So the person liquidate would get the bonus. And so it wasn't a huge
 difference, but it doesn't need to be because it turns out that the attacker could then effectively
 kind of like loop to amplify both the losses and the gains. And so with this looping strategy,
 they were able to withdraw a lot more and drain more funds from the protocol than normally it
 would allow. And so that was, yeah, that's how it happened. What was it like TVL back then,
 and how much did the hacker manage to steal? So we had, I think total deposits were sort of around
 five, 600 million. The attacker was able to take out 200 million from the protocol.
 Yeah, big numbers. And, you know, I can talk about like the recovery process, but we did, I
 should say, up for we recovered all of the money and more. So we were able to recover 240 million
 from the exploiter over a period of several weeks following the attack. So we were able to track
 them down and negotiate the return of all the stolen funds.
 Oh, so, yeah, tell us about that. Like, how did, how did you go extract the guy down and how did
 you, why did they agree to return these funds? There could be an entire, like, I am not kidding,
 like an entire documentary series on this exploit. It was one of the most harrowing moments of my
 life, but also retrospectively now if you look back on it, one of the most interesting sort of
 the exploits and tipi history, I think. So, yeah, I mean, firstly, the reason it was particularly
 awful, I mean, it's awful for everybody involved when something like this happens. But for me
 personally, it was only four days after the birth of my son. So I was on, yeah, like the
 the weekend, my son was born, like, you know, the early hours of Friday morning. By Friday afternoon,
 there was a banking crisis in the US and circle asset USDC was depegging. So it's called
 Interaction to like deal with this crisis issue with USDC over the weekend. So it really gets
 chance to spend any time with my son there. And then on Monday morning, I had some alarms going
 off and assumed it was related to the USDC, depegg event, but it turns out it was actually
 an Euler specific attack. And so, yeah, my, yeah, the next few weeks were then spent
 with him, my son, like, in the background and me, like, maybe trying to negotiate return of all
 this money. The actual, I mean, there was so many twists and turns, the exploiter, like, tried to,
 yeah, well, you know, we tried them down through various means that I can't really reveal all of
 them, but, you know, you have to do a lot like a huge amount of data gathering and so you figured
 out the identity of the person. Eventually, yes, although not, not initially. I mean, we had to,
 like, I think we had a list of around 10 candidates, can't remember, but like, we developed a list of
 people that we quite quickly, over about 24 hours, we had a list of people that we thought could be
 involved based on available evidence. And, but yeah, we didn't actually know the identity of the
 person until quite a long, long time after, like, even when we first started talking to them, we,
 we, we wanted them to believe that we knew who they were, but we didn't actually know which person
 they were our bad list or whether they're on our list at all. In fact, but yeah, they were, they,
 they started getting, I mean, they tried to do a donation to the North Korean address to make it
 look like it was a North Korean exploit, because if North Korea exploits a protocol, the funds
 don't come back, right? You don't, then they're, they're gone from North Korea. No, no, I mean,
 so, so it's over. So I suppose that I suppose he was, his gambit there was, hey, if they think it's
 North Korea, then maybe, maybe they'll just like go away. But at that point, there was already like
 strong indications from our side that we, that we knew it wasn't North Korea. So we were kind of
 able to call his bluff on, on, on those, on those donation gambit and, and then try to provoke more
 of a response from him and then try and, try and just get closer and closer whilst trying to,
 you know, negotiate the turn. And then the funds started coming back in dribs and drabs. It wasn't
 like they all came back in one big block. Actually, they were probably, they came back in maybe
 batch of batches of like, I don't know, yeah, maybe like eight different times, like different
 amounts of funds, like would come back and he tried to play games, like trying to put this,
 pretend to be multiple attackers at one point and, and do all sorts of like really crazy stuff. So
 it was a wild goose chase and it lasted for weeks. Yeah. Wow. Wow. Interesting. And then in the end,
 he said, you recovered more than what he had stolen? Yeah. And I mean, in taller terms, because the,
 he, when when when the SAP is draining protocol, they, a lot of the assets come back in, in, in
 terms of like USDC or USDT, right? And circle and tether if they get requests from law enforcement,
 or they know that funds are clearly being stolen, they have the ability to put freezes on assets.
 So a lot of assets, a lot of attackers will just effectively auto, auto convert any stolen funds
 into a or an asset that's like more, more decentralized and more difficult to kind of freeze,
 basically. So that's what this guy did. And then in the period of the recovery period,
 where we were tracking down and negotiating the recovery, the price of ETH rallied.
 And so actually, it was kind of like the attack up on a long position on behalf of all of our
 users. Yeah. Whilst it was going up in price. So when, when we finally recovered, you know,
 all of the funds, the, the users got back. It was the next, it was the surplus, a 40 million dollar
 surplus of, of assets, basically. So, yeah. Wow. So then you guys paid that out to the users. So how
 did you? Yeah. I mean, yeah, we, yeah, it was all paid out users. I mean, it's a very complex
 calculation, figuring out how much users, you know, have in a protocol, a, you know, a, a lending
 buying protocol, like the users held like an absolute value, right, a snapshot point in time. But that,
 that net asset value changes a lot over a period of three weeks that can, depending on what kind
 of positions you got, have you got loans and you just got the posits, you just lending and so on.
 But yeah, it was all distributed back to the, to the users. So that was the recovery period,
 which itself took, you know, a long time and was very, very difficult. And because the TBL went down
 to, when did they went down to three months zero, or, I mean, the protocol wasn't viable after that
 happened. I mean, yeah, so it wasn't like there was, it wasn't, it wasn't like there was a live
 protocol anymore. It was basically a dead, dead protocol. So it had to be the, the, the option was
 effectively, it turns out, by the way, that there was the way to prevent this was like a, it was like
 a single, single thing missing funds donates reserves function. The donates reserves by itself wasn't
 there. Wasn't the biggest, wasn't wasn't the issue. It was just there was a missing like check
 in this, in this function. And so had that function had the missing check, then it would have been
 fine. So in principle, at that point, we could have just, if we wanted to, to continue from there,
 we could have just made that, that fixed to donate to reserves and then relaunched all of v1.
 Because it was a very good protocol. And I think it's, there's actually a fork of it,
 somebody else has been using on one of the other networks. I forget its name that's been going
 strong ever since. So, yeah, it's, it's a very good protocol, aside from that, that one crucial
 flaw. But we, we decided for, for, for other reasons, actually, to not, to not go with relaunching v1,
 you know, we decided as a team to stick together after that. It took us a while to come to that
 decision, like a few weeks. But, you guys also think of like, just shutting down or?
 Oh, yeah. Yeah. Of course. I mean, it was extremely traumatizing for the team.
 And obviously going to be really hard to recover from that. But we had a very good reputation,
 indeed, fire, think up to that point, you know, it wasn't like, this had happened out of carelessness,
 or because, you know, there's, we hadn't got the audits or whatever. We were like, we went,
 a button beyond the, you know, with all the, all the gold standards at that time were kind
 of followed. And so, we had a lot of support from the Board of DeFi community and from the
 security community and so on to, to continue. And the question was, could we, could we restore
 the faith of like potential users though, right? Like, it's, it's one thing having a security
 reach is that researchers say, well, yeah, they, they, you know, they did their best and still,
 still this happened. But it's another like finding that faith with the users again. So,
 there's a lot of concern, I suppose that like, even if we wanted to, we wouldn't be able to
 come back to reputationally from, from this. But, yeah, we talked about it a lot and decided
 that we all liked each other and wanted to work in DeFi still and try and try and try to keep
 moving the space forward and that we had, had kind of a special team. And so, we thought,
 we would rather than disperse and go and like, join new projects or and try and rebuild a new
 project. We thought, we'll, we'll give it a go. We, you know, we still had, we still had the
 finances to do it, fortunately, for my investors. We had the backing of all of our investors to
 go out and rebuild. And so, yeah, we said, so let's, let's give it a shot. And so, that's how we
 started building on it, on a B2 at that point. And what were the biggest changes in B2?
 Yeah, quite a lot to be honest. I mean, V1 was, we had a lot of, we learned a lot about
 from V1, about like the market and the product market fit. Like, we discussed earlier about,
 you know, what, like, it's one thing to just build something, but like, does it really have
 demand? The main thing we learned, I think, was that there's, there's not just like a one-size-fits-all
 indeed, five for lending and borrowing. Like, every single user has a slightly different risk
 reward preference. You know, some people, like, really conservative, like, simple markets that are
 low, lower yielding, but they do one thing and do it really well. Others like, things like Aave,
 which are more like, larger, monolithic protocols, probably like, more capital efficient, but like,
 with an elevated level of risk. And so, like, it's not clear that there's, you know, there's,
 there's just this, like, one perfect way to do credit markets that fits all users. There's,
 there's a diversity of preferences. And so we thought, how can we, and by the way, all the,
 like, an increasingly, like, diverse number of assets as well. So there's, like, lots of,
 you know, new stable cons and, like, state teeth and things were emerging and so on. So,
 lots of different asset types. And so, what we realized was rather than building, like,
 this one protocol that's, like, designed as a, as a particular product for a specific user set,
 we said, why don't we build a, why don't we build the, the infrastructure for making
 credit market products? So, we decided to build more of, like, a modular, a modular protocol,
 where you could have these, like, plug and play pieces that you can fit them together,
 effectively, to then rebuild products. And so, you can rebuild Euler V1 using this toolkit that
 we've got for Euler V2, but you can also build other types of credit markets as well that might
 have a different design that might be more conservative on the risk spectrum or whatever.
 And then the idea with V2 is that other people can then come and build products in their own image
 and tailor them to the, the user bases that they have in mind and the risk reward demands that they,
 they have on the protocol. So, all of V2 is, is not a product, a single product. It's a,
 it's a, it's like a rainbow of products. It's just all sorts of, all sorts of different types of
 things going on with V2 and different operators as well for those products. There's lots of things,
 lots of entities called risk-curators or, of curators that come and build their own,
 build their own credit markets in Euler. And that wasn't really something we had in V1.
 So, does it make sense to think of, like, today, if you think on, like,
 lending credit protocols, you have, like, are they, that's, you know, of course, the best known,
 and, which is, you know, very simple protocol. And then I guess morpho is a bit more flexible,
 and then you guys are even more flexible and even more modular. Is that like a reasonable way of,
 or, like, how do you compare Euler sort of in the landscape of different DeFi lending protocols?
 Yeah, I think, I think I would say, like, at its core, it's a toolkit for making DeFi protocols.
 So you can build morpho with Euler, or you can build Aave with Euler, or build something in between
 those two, but you, that's not true the other way around, right? You can't, you can't build the
 primitive using their, their toolkit. So, like, morpho fundamentally as these things call markets.
 And markets in morpho are just, like, collateral debt pairs, they're simple isolated pairs.
 And then they have many, many pairs. And then on top, they have allocators. So capital allocators
 will then push capital into the different pair, into the different pair markets and borrows will,
 will borrow from those pairs. Aave, by contrast, is this big monolithic market. So it's a market,
 but it's rather than having just a pair of assets, it's got, you know, 30 or 40 assets in it, right?
 And then they cross collateralized and so on. So it's, it's more capital efficient, but higher
 on the risk spectrum, because now you don't have this, yeah, you don't have this isolation,
 essentially. So if an asset, it makes them more capital efficient, because basically,
 Aave has like one pool of USDC and, you know, and there's like one borrow rate and versus like,
 for example, morpho, there would be like various different types of USDC pools. And maybe some are
 like, used to the max and some others are barely used. So, and that kind of, yeah.
 Yeah. So on morpho, I mean, just like the, if you think about the design trade-off,
 say a little bit like there's, there's, there's fragmented USDC pools. Now, morpho tries to solve
 that for the lenders by effectively having like a higher level allocator balls. And most lenders
 deploy into their like allocator ball, and then that disperses those funds into these lower level
 markets. And that's, that's fine for the lenders to a degree, but on the borrows, on the borrowing side,
 it still means you have this huge, a huge amount of fragmentation, which means still leads to like,
 variable rates and, and, and less capital efficiency there. The other thing about morpho is that the
 collateral is always held in like an escrowed state, which means it's not, it's not re-hypoticated at
 all. In Aave, the market's cross-classifies. And often, if you're taking a loan, let's say you're
 using ETH to borrow a USDC. The ETH is re-hypoticated, which means that somebody else can be borrowing
 the, the ETH from you whilst you're using its collateral. And that makes it more capital efficient
 because as a, as a, I'm borrowing USD on Aave, or re-hypoticated market, like we have an oil as well.
 It means that I'm earning interest on the, on the ETH side, and I'm paying interest on the, on the
 debt. And like, sometimes the two carat, how cancel each other out, sometimes it's actually even
 profitable to kind of take loans like that. Whereas on morpho, your, your ETH would typically just be
 starting in, in kind of escrow and it wouldn't earn actually yield. So it might cost you more.
 If you look at the, what's called the utilization rate of these markets, which is like the, the,
 the average, if you look across all possible positions,
 of like the amount of, you know, the, the, basically the fraction of, the fraction of assets which are
 borrowed on oil, the fraction of assets, which are borrowed is around 50% over on, on, on, on
 morpho, by contrast, it would be like low 30s. So there's a big gap between the capital efficiency
 of, of markets, which have re-hypotication or enable that as a feature, and the ones that don't,
 and that's one of the, yeah, one of the trade-off and design decision differences between oil and
 morpho. And so oil, you also has, have re-hypotication like in Aave. Yeah, so on, on oil, you, our
 primitive unit is not a market, but actually even smaller than that, it's just a single vault,
 and users can deploy assets into vaults, and then they can use those assets as collateral,
 or they can lend and borrow them from the vault. Now, if you want to re-create a morpho pair,
 you, you basically connect two vaults together. You, you have like one vault, which does the
 lending and borrowing, and one vault, it's just all the collateral. It's got a single connection.
 But on oiler, you can, because it's a toolkit, and it's the modular toolkit, you can actually
 extend that. You can say that I'm going to act, I'm going to accept multiple clathables, and then
 I'd have like, you know, different types of clathables for my lending and borrowing role,
 but you can go, you can also do the relationship both ways. So you can say that A can borrow B,
 and B can borrow A. So if you start to build up markets where you have lots of vaults,
 which all cross-reference one of those as collateral, that's effectively what Aave is.
 So yeah, under the hood, you can reconstruct an Aave. The simplest, the simplest possible Aave,
 would be something where you have just, yeah, people can deposit ETH and borrow USDC,
 and people can deposit USDC and borrow ETH, right? That would be like the simplest possible
 Aave with rehab publication. There's a protocol called Silo, which allows those kind of markets
 to be developed. And yeah, oiler has those too, right? We have some markets which are just that
 simple. They're like the simplest possible Aave's, but we have some markets where there's,
 there's also many assets, and they start to, you know, the market gets much bigger and starts to
 resemble more like Aave itself. And where do you see the most traction today?
 Mainnet, it was in networks where we're deployed across 12 different networks.
 And ETH Mainnet, I think, is the home of finance today or the home of DeFi today,
 but we've got a lot of traction on Avalanche more recently as well. Recently deployed to
 Linnea, which is growing quickly, and arbitrum. Yeah, it depends on which network you are,
 and what the asset base is there, that all users have different profiles and different networks
 we found. And so you see very different types of markets developing on different networks.
 And yeah, I mean, stable coins, you'll bring stable coins and stable more generally is,
 has been the thing that's driven the explosive growth of both Euler and also Martha, I think,
 is the diversity of yield-bearing assets and demand the borrower. So yield-bearing
 stable coins where people will like deposit the yield-bearing stable coin and then they borrow
 against it. That's right, yeah. So like USDA or like what are the top yield-bearing stable
 coins in Euler? I think USDA will be like a massive one. We also have like some open
 need and stuff as well, lots of Pendle tokens. So I mean, the basic trade that's super popular
 these days on Euler and other lending protocols is you deposit your yield-bearing stable. Let's
 say it's paying 10%. And you borrow a non-yield-bearing stable from a lending market and maybe you have
 to pay 7% to borrow. So yeah, if you do that and then you loop that, yeah, so that you,
 rather than getting just your 10%, you can effectively earn the 10% plus the number you can get that
 3% or 4% spread, but on a loop. So you amplify your exposure to the interest rates and you take
 on board risk, if the stable coin depegs and it falls in price, you collapse will decrease in
 price and you risk liquidation. But assuming you're not worried about that risk, then you can
 effectively amplify the interest rate you earn by kind of looping a yield-bearing stable against
 a non-yield-bearing stable and try and perform what's called like a carry trade. It's very popular
 in TransFi as well as DeFi, but in DeFi, this has been the big trade of the past year, so it's
 some kind of carry trade on yielding non-yielding stables. What do you think the future looks like?
 I'm curious, I mean, I guess in the traditional financial market, right, like fixed rate lending
 is a huge part. I mean, I would guess probably the majority of that is fixed, although you
 probably know better what the breakdown is there. Whereas in, I think, DeFi, right, we have
 mass majority of lending happens with variable rates. Do you think this is going to change?
 I think it will change, yeah, for sure. I mean, we've got new products coming on OLLO, which are
 more targeted to fixed rate borrowing. We've got two products coming actually in that regard,
 but we're not alone, right? I think the other competitors have products coming to.
 The reason why they're in such huge demand, I believe, is that it's not so much less.
 Lenders are probably fairly happy with variable rates, but the variable rate is probably the
 fair rate that you should be getting at any one point in time. The rate reflects the demand
 to borrow in the market, and then compensation should get a lot as a lender based on the
 recipe of taking it out of that time. So think for lenders, they're fine with it, but for borrowers,
 these carry trades become a bit unwieldy to carry out. If the thing you're borrowing is very
 variable, right? You might have your yield-bearing stable that's at 10%. And yeah, maybe you start,
 and you open up a trade, and you're borrowing at like 7%, or 8%, but then the rate spikes.
 Now it's actually more costly to borrow the thing than the thing you're using as collateral. So now
 you're in like this negative carry trade, where you're actually losing money on a loop as well.
 So you're actually amplifying your losses. And so that's, again, increasingly frustrated with
 that, right? They would much rather maybe pay a premium initially to kind of lock in a fixed rate.
 So maybe the variable may pull 7%, but maybe they're happy to pay 8%, as long as they know
 that they can lock in and it will grow above 8%. So a huge demand on the borrow side, I would say,
 for borrowers to be able to lock in fixed cost-borrowing positions for short to medium to amount of time.
 Okay, and then I guess on the lender side, they would also have to accept the fixed rate.
 Yeah, this is the question, right? Is the lender going to be just as happy with this?
 The fixed rate products are definitely favorable for borrowers. Are they favorable for lenders?
 And do you have a product market fit on both sides of the plane here?
 I think on the for lenders, they would expect a premium, right? Because they're also sacrificing,
 like the sacrificing this fair rate that they're getting. The borrower should be prepared to pay
 this premium because it's clearly an advantage for that party. So they're effectively trading
 the playing premium to lock in a profit. So yeah, that premium goes to the lenders,
 and maybe that premium's enough, but maybe it's a not. The other thing the lender's
 forego, I guess, is that flexibility to withdraw. A lot of lenders like to have that flexibility,
 so just like withdraw whenever they want, right? A lot of lending protocols are designed with
 that in mind. So they often have this unutilized portion of the pool or idle capital and pool,
 which allow the lenders to withdraw at any one point in time. If you lock in at a fixed rate,
 however, you typically kind of get locked into a more of a fixed term as well, which means you're
 losing that flexibility to access your capital when you need it. So yeah, there's that clear
 tension between lenders and borrowers. And one thing we know is that markets are a really good
 way to find a resolution for that tension. So it'll be interesting to see when these products
 shoot. I think it sounds like all postcards are developing slightly different types of fixed
 rate products. It'd be interesting to see which ones get the best product market fit and satisfy
 the needs of both the lenders on the borrowers in a way that balances out on this fare.
 Do you think the demand on both sides will be mostly sort of short, like, I don't know, a month,
 or maybe even shorter duration? Or do you also see markets developing for a more long-term debt?
 I think initially it's going to be driven by most borrowers are kind of like traders,
 and they're working on time horizons that are months, not usually years.
 As a borrower, if you're doing these strategies, you could, in principle, be rebalancing every day.
 You can probably optimize you by finding the best strategy every day or rebalancing very frequently,
 but then you have the cost of rebalancing, which is not just gas costs, but your time planning,
 like, then the added risk of repetitively rebalancing, you might make a mistake in one of those things.
 So rebalancing too frequently is kind of not something people tend to do.
 So yeah, usually borrowers, in my opinion, will be looking to lock trades in for weeks,
 or maybe like several months at a time. So yeah, we see this kind of thing with a
 Pendle, right? Pendle offers fixed rate products, and allow borrowers typically all like more like lenders,
 as opposed to kind of like locking for three month to six month periods as well.
 And I suspect we'll see fixed rate products that kind of match that sort of time frame,
 so that like, yeah, one month to six months of range, should probably
 where I put my money on being the most popular.
 So you mentioned Pendle, why are you doing Pendle?
 Pendle is not a DeFi protocol that has gotten like a lot of traction.
 My understanding of Pendle is that it's a lot of
 around points, and basically someone will earn some
 unknown amount of some other token, and then they basically sell those for some fixed interest.
 And then they get these PT tokens out of a specific maturity,
 and I guess they could then use that as collateral in something like Euler to borrow and to loop it.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Would you also think, or I don't know if it's possible to build something like Pendle directly in Euler?
 It would. Yeah, I mean, you could definitely definitely do that with the kind of fixed rate
 products we've got coming. But like you say, I think Pendles, but Pendles are exceptionally
 powerful is, but it allows people to effectively convert intangible incentives and rewards
 into like a concrete fixed rate. So you have people earning points and other things,
 which are like quite hard to value. And so they don't really know what they're worth,
 and they like sell them off for kind of like lock-ins and like make it real, basically,
 like make those points real and turn them into like something that they can actually trade
 on a proper secondary market. And that's where like Pendle services that need.
 And yeah, as you said, then once you've converted that into kind of like a real kind of yield,
 then people want to loop that yield and like amplify it on less is like Euler,
 whether come in and use collateral as a Pendle token and do a carry trade and borrow non-yielding
 staples there. The loopers end up being kind of like junior capital. They're taking like seeking
 higher risk, but like taking, sorry, seeking more reward, but taking on higher risks,
 liquidation and performing all these loops and all the rest of it. And then the lenders on the
 other side of that trade become more like senior capital where they're not getting paid as much,
 but they're kind of protected and they're protected through effectively the overclassicalization
 of the borrowers. That's been the big popular trade, I would say, on that front. But yeah,
 you can build Pendle and Euler, but it's not like where there's no plans to build that Pendle
 laptop to not in Euler, frankly. There's a different kind of fixed rate that I think people want to
 lock in for. What do you see as the future for Euler? I mean, I think all the finance is coming,
 so I've been saying this for years. I think all the finance is going to come on-chain.
 I think if you use swap products and you're a swapper, you have no loyalty to who you use,
 right? You just put it through one inch or a cow swap or whatever else and just getting the best
 possible swap rate you can. But on credit markets, people don't do that. There's not going to be one
 winner. There's going to be a diverse selection of protocols because people want to diversify the
 risk. If you're putting assets into somewhere or taking out loans over extended periods,
 you're exposed to extended periods at risk. The only free lunch in finance is like diversification.
 I think Euler is going to be one of the largest credit protocols in the future of finance,
 frankly. I think we won't be the only one. There'll be other big protocols too, but certainly we'll
 be up there. Over time, I imagine that we'll all slightly specialize. Usually what happens in
 markets is you find specialization. Euler will develop a specialization for certain
 classes of trades, probably, and do those better than anybody else whilst although competitors end
 up specializing on other things as well. In the short term, I think right now we're still dealing
 with very cryptonative forms of credit, but I think there's increasing amounts of more traditional
 forms of credit coming on chain. Euler is very well set up. The architecture of Euler is very
 welcoming for real-world assets, I would say. That's something that I think we'll be pushing
 forward on in the months and years to come. You think in terms of you mentioned that
 different protocols will specialize in different ways, so you think for Euler it will be more around
 RWA's? I think real-world assets will be a big part of it. We also have a swap protocol that's
 built on top of Euler swap, which works extremely well with real-world assets and can open up growth
 opportunities for real-world assets that aren't really there today. I think that's today that's
 something that we see as a competitive advantage, certainly. When you talk about real-world assets,
 what do you think are the type of real-world assets that will get the most traction?
 Well, in the short term, I think DeFi has always been a very risk on environments. I think tokenizing
 credit funds will be popular because they'll generate more yield, and those yields then get
 will get passed on to lenders through looping, where we get senior junior tranches.
 Just like we have with the DeFi assets today, I think initially that's right. But that's credit
 funds where people basically, I don't know, for example, a fund that lends dollars to, for example,
 businesses. That kind of thing, and then they somehow tokenize the fund and put it on chain.
 Yeah, that's right. I think those kind of things. They're definitely higher up the risk spectrum.
 But that's the kind of DeFi is a very risk on environment, generally. I think the people
 we have here today, that would probably be quite popular. But over time, I think the space will
 continue to mature. We see all sorts of FinTechs coming on more traditional institutions coming
 on chain as well. Then we'll start to see the emergence of much lower risk types of real-world
 assets coming on chain and being popular as well. There's already some of those hits.
 But they're just not widely used. We see Biddle. It's tokenized tea bills,
 all those kind of things. They don't provide juicy yields, and therefore, they're not that
 popular to trade among DeFi protocols today. There's friction to using them as well. There's
 extra constraints with moving these assets around. Oil and oil swap helps lower those
 frictions. I think it makes them more efficient. But even with those efficiencies, you still need
 the types of people that want to trade those assets. In tradfi, you have repo markets and
 money markets and things where you see really large sums of money changing hands over short
 periods of time. There's just nowhere near enough liquidity in DeFi today to support those kind of
 trades. But increasingly, that's changing. I think that will be very popular in the years to
 come as the space matures. I know one of the things that was often discussed as a big bottleneck
 to getting more financial institutions on chain is privacy. What do you think is the role of
 privacy in the future of DeFi? It's an interesting one. There's a huge tension between the desire
 for privacy, but then the desire for transparency as well. Where you sit on that spectrum,
 I think depends a lot on your own personal background, your experiences, how you think it's
 more like a political thing. I think if you look historically at protocols that are provided
 like a really high degree of privacy in DeFi, it's been fairly heavy use of illicit finance by bad
 actors. That puts traditional finance off, actually. Then you're not going to see institutions mixing
 funds with illicit funds that are taken in hacks and mixing with illicit finance. That's
 one form of privacy that I think is going to struggle to get adoption, honestly. But on the
 other hand, institutions also don't want to always know what they're trading, especially if it's
 a directional trade. I don't want to be putting on a trade on Bitcoin or whatever else and let
 everybody else just pick me off because they can see that I'm long when I've got certain types of
 exposure. There's a huge tension and I don't know where it will resolve. I don't think it's
 not like it's not that we don't have the technical capabilities to make these protocols. It's more
 of like a political thing and how much should we trade off between transparency, which tends to
 make fair markets versus privacy, which is arguably fairer for individuals and their personal freedoms.
 Yeah, I just don't know. In most regulations in DeFi seem to be driving towards more transparency,
 not less. But if you ask any individual person, like, should I have more privacy, I think most
 people would want more privacy, right? And that's that's only right. So yeah, there's this huge, huge
 societal and tension between those two things. Yeah, and I guess the other thing, I mean, maybe
 that is a solvable issue, right? But of course, one of the advantage of DeFi on the transparency of DeFi
 is also much easier to assess where the risks are. I mean, hard enough, but at least the
 information is there and someone can try to do it. But then if you add more privacy,
 that probably also makes it much harder to understand where the risks are and if this fails,
 what else does it result in? Yeah, I mean, I was I entered the like labor market in
 August 2008, and I joined a bank in the UK called the World Bank of Scotland,
 just as the entire system was like collapsing, right? And I remember hearing from that, you know,
 after that, after people like went through the went through everything afterwards, and I tried to
 like piece it all together, and it was just like an absolute nightmare. And I still don't think
 people completely understand what happened, because like actually mapping it all out and
 like, you know, looking at when all these different banks collapse and everything like what what
 actually went wrong, what was the the trigger and like, whether you know, whether the funds
 flowing on us, it is very hard to like process it. And I think that at least in DeFi, that's all
 easily mappable on chain. And if someone wants to do it, they can. It's not not necessarily like
 easy, as you say, but it's much, much more transparent in that regard. And I think that
 will be healthier for financial markets in the long run, even though it does pose its own challenges.
 There may be, you know, we may see yet see technologies emerge, which actually are able to kind of
 balance that all that tension out where, yeah, you can kind of have like, like, privacy is like
 the de facto norm, but like it can kind of, you can like under certain conditions,
 like reveal certain things or whatever if it's, if it's essential to do so to make sure that
 you aren't, you aren't like mixing funds with illicit finance and so on. But I didn't, I don't know.
 I mean, it's not something, it's not something that I'm working on personally or at the moment.
 We were working with what we've got, which right now is, it's mostly like max transparency, I would
 say, on open public blockchains. What's your biggest focus right now?
 Oh, I mean, personally, we have new products coming, we've discussed on fixed rates side,
 we've been working on growing our swap post call. And for my side, like a lot of my time is spent
 like going and meeting new new types of users, like institutions and other people and talking to
 them about how our oil works effectively and educating them about how the system works and
 seeing if they can be encouraged to come and use the protocol, you know, new types of asset issuers
 and so on. There's just almost not enough hours in the day at the moment. Like it really, there's,
 yeah, there's just a massive, massive shift in the past year and growth opportunities
 absolutely everywhere in DeFi right now, I would say.
 What do you think about the impact AI is going to have on DeFi?
 Oh, I mean, as we mentioned, I think like one thing that's certainly certainly likely to happen,
 you know, we've talked about like rebalancing strategies and all the rest of it and making sure
 that you're able to able to kind of monitor positions and so on. I imagine that that's
 something that's going to be handled by AI. We've already like internally like played with some
 like machine learning algorithms for like optimizing yield basically by like rebalancing like landing
 positions and so on. I think you could do that with AI as well. I have like smart oaring basically
 where you rather than you having to sit at the computer, like well, you spreadsheets like the,
 you know, the financial analyst going through things pouring over data like like really
 intelligent bots that can basically under some constraints move move the funds on your behalf
 to either optimize the yield is like the the senior transfer to to optimize the lending and
 borrowing positions is the kind of dream year. It's interesting. So I think that will be,
 yeah, we'll we'll change things a lot and lead to more efficient markets overall. There's huge
 inefficiencies in DeFi today. Rate optimization is not really a thing. It's this protocols like
 iPod and others and that's, you know, do it like it's the kind of what year and introduce like
 when I first started back in 2020, like, I think was we're doing this kind of thing, but it's still
 it's still a very inefficient market, you know, by and large, I think they are just going to change
 that. Cool. Well, thank you so much for coming on. It was really cool to dive into oiler and yeah,
 I think, I think what you've funded out before, like, you know, if a traffic and then RWA is coming
 on chain, a lot more capital on coming on chain. This is going to be an, you know, I think DeFi
 will continue to be an extremely interesting space. So I'm really excited for what you guys are
 building. Thank you. Yeah. Thanks for having me on. That was a really good chat. Lots of different
 topics since it was great. There's just so much to do right now. So very, very excited time.
