TITLE: How Payments Will Become Autonomous, Invisible, and Powered by Crypto and AI
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=goU803-lAXo
VIDEO_ID: goU803-lAXo

TRANSCRIPT:
You know, right now when we look at the stablecoin ecosystem,
 a lot is being used in payments and trading pairs in crypto.
 What if you're back here in five or 10 years on this episode?
 And I ask you the same question, where do you think what we think
 will be the biggest usage of stablecoins down the line?
 For me, I think stablecoin.
 Thank you for having me back.
 Thanks, Henry.
 I think the future of stablecoins is really now focusing on just
 the different emerging markets, but in agent payments.
 So we're really bullish on agent payments using different
 AIs, you know, we just did a live payment on AI a couple of days ago
 at the Binance blockchain week.
 So we did it on BNB and that was just it was well accepted.
 Everybody was really excited about that.
 Can you explain for a benefit of our audience?
 What is agent payments and what is the role of these AI actors in it?
 So agent payment is basically no human touch.
 Is do you believe AI is going to play a big part in our future
 or even now in the present?
 I think a lot of people does.
 So your AI agent, everybody is going to have one,
 will actually make payments to other AI agents.
 So you don't have to monitor it.
 You can sit back like autonomous vehicles in the future.
 It's going to be its own wallet.
 It's essentially an AI payment vehicle.
 So once it needs to get charged, you don't have to go to your credit card
 and oh, okay, let's get an OTP and my card needs to get charged.
 It basically drives into the charging bay, charge up
 and makes its own payment and goes back to work.
 And probably can also look at new financing solutions as well for the car
 while it's doing that as well.
 There's obviously a lot of features there.
 But what is obviously with the recent experiment you guys did,
 what is the biggest challenge you find right now with agent payments?
 What is the biggest bottleneck that we have that is basically blocking the rise of that?
 I think the challenge is really how do we make sure other agents or
 compliance are how we are so big in regulation and AML KYC.
 But what about agents?
 So we're looking at companies that are providing those services that they can say,
 hey, you're making a payment or you're paying an agent that has been vetted.
 So that's really important and it's still again very early days,
 but we're looking a little bit further ahead and we want to take care of that
 and just build up that credibility.
 Because this is obviously the dream we've had in the FinTech world,
 I forget even crypto for many years that these financial transactions
 happen behind the scenes without even noticing them.
 And actually that is way more optimal than AI agent.
 We'll be able to find the best deal in the market.
 It's definitely way better than you as a human to try to dig that information.
 And obviously you believe this has a big role to play as well with the
 Internet of Things, for example, with IoT and the rise of technology
 that we're having from that perspective.
 What this is, we've talked about unbanked.
 We've talked about the emerging markets.
 Well, I think this now, this time and day, there's really a lot of tools available.
 AI is one of them.
 So if you're say a 16 year old developer, you design a strategy around trading,
 you're 16, you're not going to be able to set up your own company.
 You're not able to get a bank account.
 But with this, what we're thinking, AI agent using stablecoins,
 you can really scale up and people will pay you for your strategy using stablecoin AI agent.
 And you're not there, you know, single payments.
 But this is a way, I think, that's going to reach those markets
 and provide these financial footprints for people that couldn't have one.
 So talking about scaling, it's really pivot a bit to actually first digital right now.
 I mean, recently you guys announced that you're going public,
 actually doing a SPAC deal.
 Can you tell us more about that, the context around,
 and what is the goal of actually going public for the company?
 I think it's really a big deal for me because it legitimizes sort of what we've built
 as a stablecoin issuer and where the institutional markets,
 where the broader traditional finance industry looks at crypto and stablecoins, in my case.
 So it's a good acknowledgement and I think that that's going to be something that
 I'm going to be looking back as the second stablecoin to be public behind Circle.
 So that's a big deal for me.
 And, you know, I know it's a bit of a cliche question,
 but now obviously you're the second stablecoin to go public in the US.
 Like, what do you see the future of these stablecoins?
 Obviously, a big discussion we have is around the yield.
 There's a lot of debate.
 There's obviously a lot of lobbying from the banks again,
 you know, against the crypto platforms far for yield,
 the Genius Act explicitly bans stablecoin issuers by providing yield.
 How do you see this debate shaping up?
 Do you think crypto stablecoin issuers will prevail
 or the banks' lobbying effort will win at the end of the day?
 You've been in the crypto industry for a while.
 You know how creative crypto people can be.
 So putting yield on stablecoin is just a natural occurrence that's going to happen
 because it's not easy for to establish these banking relationships
 to get treasuries to buy reverse repos or so we think that that's a great idea.
 But again, you're crossing into security tokens,
 which is another very, very heavily regulated industry, right?
 So a lot of the industry, you know, experts are just doing it
 in different ways, providing other ways of paying those yields
 and you're seeing those companies, you know, figuring that out now.
 And I think that's great.
 You know, mentioned other companies figuring it out.
 Like, as if you had a...
 Now that obviously you went to a journey of getting the company public,
 if you had a piece of advice to other entrepreneurs,
 out there that are exploring getting the crypto companies public,
 what is the one thing you've learned the last couple of months
 that I think could be valuable to share?
 It's not easy.
 It's a lot of, you know, late nights talking.
 And especially if you're based in Asia and it's a New York listing,
 you know, a lot of the underwriters and the SPAC sponsors are in the East Coast.
 So just getting those things aligned, making your audits...
 audits needs to be basically converted to the U.S. listing standards.
 So those are things that you've got to be prepared for long nights.
 And what is probably...
 what's the biggest risk you think we're facing right now
 as a crypto community?
 I obviously brought your company public.
 A number of other companies are going public as well.
 The ecosystem is obviously maturing.
 There's going clearly in a good direction.
 I mean, many argue, I would argue as well.
 What do you think is the one risk that we may be overlooking right now
 as a crypto ecosystem as industry is maturing?
 I think we're overlooking the fact that, you know,
 with a lot of regulations we've been talking about, right,
 crypto industries are really before the genius stack.
 We were sort of still contemplating where's the best place to park ourselves?
 Where's, you know, which regulators is going to allow us to innovate
 and grow, you know, match and work with different crypto companies
 so that our products can align.
 So this is, I think, the genius stack gave us a little bit more clarity.
 And with that, we're able to say, oh, well, you know,
 let's take it up another level and let's go public.
 And I think that's going to be sort of a huge, huge advantage for us.
 Working with crypto companies, building, you know,
 great projects like finance district, what we're building is sort of a digital
 web3 wall street is the way I describe it,
 where people can build digital economies around it.
 And that's where our agentic payments is, the pay stack for our agentic payments is built.
 It can be very interesting to often think, you know, our kids,
 when they think about payments and they may laugh one day
 that we actually had to do manually and actually do these payments.
 I'm not even talking about cash and other traditional legacy systems,
 but very, very interesting.
 That was Vincent Chock, the founder and CEO of First Digital.
 Again, very exciting world coming up in the future of stablecoins.
