TITLE: The Future of Money: How is Standard Chartered helping build the infrastructure for digital assets and tokenisation
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n-rRfy0bOMY
VIDEO_ID: n-rRfy0bOMY

TRANSCRIPT:
We have three broad teams, digital banking and lifestyle for retail customers integrate
 financial services in people's lives as they want it. On the corporate side is supply chains,
 World Trade, SMEs, and all we're doing in the commerce, online commerce, and Jeremy speaking,
 supply chain space. And then across the board, I'd say, because overtime will move to a financial
 system which is handled on completely different routes, digital assets. Not saying Bitcoin is
 going up or down, I'm saying Bitcoin is here to stay, and so are stablecoins, and so are other
 tokenized instruments, and so handling this infrastructure is absolutely key. Now you may ask
 AI, sustainability, oh, absolutely. It's an integral part of everything I've just spoken about,
 sort of theme per se. It's a foundational technology, and we employ it in every one of these things.
 But the biggest challenge is it was a very lonely journey until recently, where digital assets
 adoption was occurring in a bit of the Wild West with early adopters, people doing very
 interesting things, market caps going up, and very successful companies, but ultimately not at
 institutional or bank rate. No regulatory framework either, and so people were very scared of it.
 And so there was an element of evolving from that early adopter stage in that hate to see
 early adopters get curked, but this did happen, and there was an element of that being predictable,
 into a more institutionalized digital assets industry, and the conviction again is it's here
 to stay, but in order for it to be institutional adopted, institutionally adopted, it takes the
 right kind of infrastructure at scale, robust, safe, trustworthy, you know, you could say bank
 rate, and that's why we set up to build. That has been very challenging, because initially,
 people didn't see it that way, and it's evolved into an industry which is increasingly converging
 or institutionalizing in the right sort of ways, but we're still early days. We invest, we deploy
 capital in people we work with. We would only do that with people we work with, and that's all right,
 because we're not a 16z, Sequoia, they're doing a great job, we'll never have the same information
 flow. What we do have is a bit of an edge in using the product of capability and partnering with
 them, these ventures, in the context of building our own ventures, and so it becomes an ecosystem.
 In other words, when we find a great capability, which we didn't build, but it's great, and it works,
 and so we don't have to build it, well, we'll partner up, and at times it makes sense to invest,
 sometimes it doesn't, and that's okay as well, but we'll partner with many people, and we do this
 all the time you may have, and you may have noticed, you know, some of the investments we've made in
 the region, you know, the tungsten is an example in the group, in the custody space, and obviously
 others. The valuations, really interesting, really interesting there, you know, we've had a period
 of ever-increasing multiples, ever-increasing valuations, the reality is the investment cycle is, in normal
 times, going through a cycle, eight to ten years, the building cycle is 10 to 15 times, 10 to 15
 years, and so an element of patience, an element of it takes time, a venture company has to pivot
 three, five, ten times, before we know we're on to something, and we can scale it, and that discipline
 in the iteration, in the building process is critical to building successful, viable,
 viable companies, and so valuations right now reflect a bit of that, right, end of life's fun,
 people's sort of stock at times, with companies and not wanting to do it down round, and I think
 it's a bit of an advantage for us, I think being perhaps a little more reasonable in terms of,
 in terms of expectations, and also in terms of expectations as to the time horizon that it takes
 to create a commercially viable company at scale. Are your children prepared for the future of
 money? Order Decoding Crypto with Henry and Hodler, the number one new release kid's book on Amazon.
