TITLE: How Will Crypto Go Mainstream? Luca Netz and Brandon Millman Discuss
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n02QEe2AHnY
VIDEO_ID: n02QEe2AHnY

TRANSCRIPT:
It's never been a better time to build in crypto.
 And to look at this point, you can really feel
 that we're in this inflection point at the moment.
 - The great entrepreneurs will get greater.
 More people in the middle are gonna be looking for a way
 to kind of find opportunity.
 There's no better opportunity
 than navigating the on-chain rails, that is crypto rails.
 And I also think that the top entrepreneurs
 from other industries are really starting to come in here
 and starting to compete,
 which I think is gonna raise the bar for everyone.
 (upbeat music)
 - Hey everyone.
 If you're watching this rather than listening,
 apologies that I could not be on video for this episode.
 Regardless, this was a fun conversation
 with Luca Nuts and Brandon Milman
 about how crypto goes mainstream
 in which players are well positioned
 to bring the masses on-chain.
 Some of the more interesting questions we raised
 were around the future of Coinbase,
 which is trying for the first time
 to be a more product-focused company.
 Luca feels like it should focus on its core strength,
 which is around business deals.
 Meanwhile, Brandon feels that an everything up
 is just an impossible task.
 Both Brandon and Luca see Stripe and Robin Hood
 as strong players to contend with.
 And Luca also surprised me when he said
 that he felt like world liberty financial
 could be a dark horse.
 Finally, we also talk about how one of the big opportunities
 is to replicate the business models of successful FinTechs.
 But to do so in a borderless way on blockchain rails.
 In fact, Luca is a super fan of Phantom,
 and he seems to think that Phantom could exploit this opportunity.
 And perhaps Phantom could even leverage the Solana Seeker
 or another phone to do so.
 Plus, we cover why it is that incumbents
 are likely to fumble the ball,
 and at least in the case of PayPal
 seem to have already lost their opportunity.
 As always, I hope you enjoy the show.
 Earning yield on stablecoins just got smarter with RE protocol.
 Get up to 16% APR plus points
 through regulated insurance backing and ETH basis strategies
 with no lockups required.
 Deposit USDC, USDT, or DIE
 to start earning stable yield and points today
 at RE.xyz, RE.xyz.
 Mental is pioneering blockchain for banking
 of revolutionary new category at the intersection
 of trify and web3.
 Follow Mantle, underscore official, to learn more.
 Welcome, Brandon and Luca.
 Hey, happy to be here.
 Yeah, thank you.
 All right, so we are at a very interesting stage
 in crypto's development.
 It feels like we're at this moment
 where everything feels like it's about adoption.
 There is all these major FinTech players and banks,
 even multinationals that are either making moves
 into crypto or at least exploring getting into crypto.
 And we also have crypto companies
 that are either teaming up with such players
 or encroaching on the more typical trify-ish areas
 like payments.
 So I want to talk about all of these different players,
 but first, let's just zoom out and look at how
 would you characterize this particular phase
 in crypto's journey?
 How do you view the entrepreneurs' task now
 versus previous cycles or previous eras in crypto?
 And maybe Brandon, we can start with you.
 Yeah, totally.
 Well, yeah, first of all, thanks Laura for having me on again.
 And yeah, I really, really appreciate opportunity to chat
 a little bit about Phantom and what's going on.
 And yeah, obviously a really super exciting time
 to be building a crypto company as an entrepreneur
 and founder of a company.
 And yeah, for many different reasons, obviously like you stated,
 it feels like adoption has really been surging lately.
 You see every day there's a new headline
 about some finance FinTech company,
 some more traditional finance institution like banks,
 et cetera, getting into crypto in one way
 or another.
 And yeah, I think this moment has actually
 just been a culmination of a lot of things
 that we've been working on as an industry for the last couple
 of eras or last couple of cycles like you mentioned.
 I think in the last couple of years,
 it's really been a lot about building out the infrastructure.
 And from a lot of different perspectives,
 I think there's sort of the raw blockchain tech,
 the blockchain infrastructure and things like speed, cost,
 efficiency, getting better and better.
 There's things like developer tools alongside that.
 And then there's things like regulatory infrastructure
 and things of that nature.
 I think a lot of folks in the industry
 have been working at these things from a lot of different angles
 in terms of improving and getting
 the infrastructure up to speed.
 So I'd say in terms of sort of the entrepreneurs task,
 it's been, I think, very infrastructure oriented
 for the last number of cycles and number of years.
 And then it's all culminating coming to a head now.
 And as we all know, there's a lot of network effects
 and compounding value involved with building
 this type of open, permissionless ecosystem.
 And so I think you're starting to see
 sort of the runaway train effect a bit now.
 But yeah, that's sort of how I would generally characterize
 sort of where we've been and where we're at now.
 But yeah, Luca, I'm not sure if you have a different take.
 No, I think it's a good take.
 I think I would probably, how I view it is,
 I think this is like the great inflection point.
 I think the great paradigm shift here,
 I think one of the things we underwrote
 when we were assessing buying pudgy penguins,
 I remember talking to my co-founders at the time,
 I told them, I was like, there's no industry in crypto
 where the bar of entrepreneurship is so low
 and the ability to create a billion dollar company
 is so high based on that low bar.
 I think, and I think that was really predicated
 on storytelling and the future potential of what could be,
 I think the paradigm shift that you're gonna see here,
 at least for entrepreneurship,
 is I think a player entrepreneurs are coming here.
 And I don't think, and I think it's going to be a,
 I think you're gonna see power law kind of kick in,
 I think for the first time,
 where the best are gonna continue to win.
 And there's gonna be more competition
 to kind of drive and figure out who's the best.
 And I also think the days of speculative hope,
 you know, I know he won't mind me saying this,
 but I had lunch with no regrets like six, seven weeks ago.
 And I agreed with him and he was like,
 "The days of no revenue being worth billions of dollars
 "has to be over."
 And so I think it's gonna get a lot harder,
 meaning I think the easy road of,
 "Hey, here's this net new asset class
 "and net new technology.
 "And anybody who builds around it
 "is gonna see some sort of value accrual."
 And frankly, laymen entrepreneurs coming in
 and building billion dollar businesses, I think are over.
 And I think that's a good thing.
 And so I think the focus now is,
 how do you take this hyper-financialization
 and these payment rails that tap into global liquidity
 and global composability
 and actually build disruptive technologies
 that are going to change the world
 and not just build pseudo-destructive technologies
 that you tell a story around and an narrative around
 and preach that you're changing the world without doing it?
 I think this is gonna be the era of result-driven success
 and less speculative success,
 which I think is nothing but a good thing.
 And I think the floodgates are finally open.
 I mean, it was right in front of us the whole time.
 Some of us saw it, some of us didn't.
 I'm being frank, I actually didn't see
 this missing piece in the consumer crypto funnel.
 But for crypto to really break through in a mass,
 the way we had all been hoping,
 there was a couple of things that are broken,
 one being the consumer journey,
 but I also think just the adoption of stablecoins.
 And now that I think stablecoins are gonna be
 a popular medium in just how everyday people transact,
 it's gonna be really easy to funnel them
 into these on-chain applications
 in a way where I think the biggest caveat to onboarding
 and the consumer curve specifically on chain
 was really that zero to one.
 Fanum actually, sorry, Ron, if you're here, Renix,
 I think you probably have one of the best zero to ones
 in crypto, definitely in the Solana ecosystem.
 But that I think is gonna be the big paradigm shift here
 is you have stablecoins, users now have excess on-chain dollars
 to spend on applications.
 Crypto is the king of hyper-financialization
 in a world with AI, power law, I think we'll also kick in.
 The great entrepreneurs will get greater.
 More people in the middle are gonna be looking for a way
 to kind of find opportunity.
 There's no better opportunity
 than navigating the on-chain rails that is crypto rails.
 And I also think that the top entrepreneurs
 from other industries are really starting to come in here
 and starting to compete,
 which I think is gonna raise the bar for everyone.
 - Yeah.
 So before we get into kind of the various players,
 I did also wanna ask for you too,
 'cause both of you I think have managed to grow
 and get distribution and kind of widen the audience
 for crypto.
 And I was curious if you could just talk a little bit
 about your stories in terms of how you did that,
 how you thought about it.
 And even just like now how you're thinking differently
 about it given the stage that we're at.
 So a little bit of like history.
 - Yeah, I can go first real quick.
 Basically it got my start
 in sort of my tech industry career
 working at pretty early Twitter from 2013 to 2017.
 So that's where personally I cut my teeth on learning
 how to build internet applications for at extremely large scale,
 you know, tens of millions to 100 millions of users.
 You know, from there I jumped into crypto around 2017
 during the ICO white paper era
 and joined a very early sort of pre-defy
 DeFi startup called zero X.
 And that's where I cut my teeth on really learning
 what DeFi is helping define decentralized exchange
 as it's used today.
 And I think during that period, you know,
 recognized and gained a lot of insights around what,
 what makes for a good user experience,
 what are the major bottlenecks in the industry?
 And especially how to, I think an especially interesting
 vantage point as a developer trying to push
 an end user application and recognizing that the wallet
 was really where the rubber met the road
 in terms of is a user actually going to convert
 to use these things?
 Is a user, you know, is a user actually going on board?
 Is the user actually going to click confirm
 and the checkout flow and recognize that,
 yeah, essentially the wallet,
 it would be the highest leverage place
 that we could apply ourselves
 to actually push the whole industry forward.
 And so that's where, yeah,
 we kind of initially got the initial spark
 to build phantom, you know, originally conceptualized
 as a metamask competitor and, you know,
 want to sort of replace them as the entry point
 into crypto and then fast forward a couple of years
 from there and, you know, you know,
 we're way larger than metamask.
 Many more users are entering the crypto ecosystem
 for the first time.
 And I think it just kind of really went to show
 our whole thesis around usability really being
 that kind of bottleneck and if you apply some sort of
 standard thinking from the web 2.0 world
 and a lot of our experience there,
 there was a lot of low hanging fruit to pick up
 and, yeah, moving forward, I think, you know,
 what Luca mentioned sort of, I think,
 a combination of my answer and Luca's answer from before,
 I think, the infrastructure phase where there are sort of
 a lot of paintings of, you know, there's a,
 the infrastructure phase where there's a lot of vapor
 to be, to be peddled, I think, is over
 and the users and the dollars are here.
 And so I think it's going to come down to actually providing
 the best experience for the user, you know,
 owning their attention, you know, owning their mind share,
 earning their, you know, the owning the, you know,
 their business for, you know, helping secure their funds
 and all of that.
 I think that's sort of the next phase
 for, and we're going to see crypto.
 - And honestly, Brandon, just to try them in there,
 looking from a third party, I think Fanham's growth
 and success story, you know, really embodies the saying
 around like the best product, the best product wins.
 I mean, from my perspective, you guys just built
 the best wallet and the users galvanized around that
 and hit escape velocity.
 And when the product is just so much better
 than your competitor incumbent,
 if like you said, for such a crucial part
 of the crypto experience, you're going to win in a big way.
 So I'm a happy Fanham user, kudos to you guys
 for building a phenomenal product.
 - Thank you, thanks so much.
 - Yeah, I think to maybe, you know,
 answer the question through my frame,
 the Penguin character in our lens,
 it's a little different than maybe a direct functional product,
 but the IP and the character for us is the product.
 And so I knew there was a problem in crypto.
 The problem to me was crypto is taboo and intimidating, right?
 And so what's not taboo and what's not intimidating
 a cute Penguin?
 And so our whole thought processes,
 I have a more process oriented conversion process
 than maybe a direct conversion process.
 So I actually think the way that I'm approaching growth
 is I'm trying to meet consumers
 in an emotional gap that I'm trying to fail.
 And I'm trying to invade their hearts and minds.
 And as I create as many touch points
 and rapport with that consumer,
 slowly but surely two things happen,
 they either go down the rabbit hole themselves
 or I push them down the rabbit hole.
 And so our conversion process is a little more
 how many times can we reach the consumer?
 How can we build trust and credibility amongst them?
 And over time, as the sales and the wins of crypto momentum
 kind of comes back, I'm the most familiar, most credible,
 most tangential IP that people can resonate with.
 And I think our marketing and growth strategy
 is really predicated around touch points.
 I think a lot of people saw our Walmart and our target
 and our toy product as a revenue driver,
 I'm sure it was, but to be frank,
 the revenue there doesn't excite me.
 What excites me is the marketing and the touch points
 post when somebody turns off their computer
 or closes their iPhone,
 being able to have that sort of emotional visibility,
 I thought was really important for us.
 And so I believe specifically in the category of culture,
 I want Pudgy and Igloot own culture in crypto.
 I think that's really where we,
 I think, have found our stride.
 And so looking through that lens,
 it's a multitude of what's your message, what's your story?
 Pudgy Penguins is the face of crypto,
 it's the mascot of crypto,
 it's the underdog story of crypto.
 How do you meet people where they are?
 Every single place you can go to on the internet,
 whether it's Google, Instagram, X,
 there isn't a social network in which Penguins
 aren't plagued throughout that network.
 And then ultimately creating something that's universal,
 which I think is a byproduct of VIP
 that I frankly inherited or purchased,
 which was I think a big place where we want to win
 and I think we're probably the only group
 winning in this regard,
 is how do you get the family involved, right?
 If crypto is truly going to be mass,
 how does every single person, a part of the family stack,
 you know, participate and enjoy
 and lean into crypto rails?
 And I think from our perspective,
 I think IP, just in general,
 has a really great role to play
 in this respect for the industry.
 And I think Pudgy specifically has really done
 a really great job at bringing people
 from all walks of life and all ranges
 of the psychographic and demographic together.
 And I think you kind of combine that all
 with just, in my opinion,
 the best illustrated Penguin of all time.
 And I think you've seen our growth
 over the last couple of years
 and it's byproduct of, I think, those lines of thought.
 Yeah, I love that.
 So smart thinking about like multiple generations
 and like how different people of different age groups
 or demographics connect.
 You know, one other comment I wanted to make
 was just like earlier when you guys were talking about,
 you know, bringing in new people and stuff.
 Like, I was, I had flashes of those like FTX ads
 and you know, with like, just sell a bunch in.
 And I was like, okay, okay.
 So it's the same thing except there's like real substance
 behind it, basically, is the difference.
 Okay, okay.
 So let's talk about just all the various players
 that we think could kind of dominate
 in this next like phase of adoption.
 So I wrote down a few different ones,
 but you should feel free to add any
 because I'm sure there's ones I haven't thought of
 or there might be ones that I mentioned
 that you feel, you know, don't really belong in this category.
 So I just love to start with like just an overall view
 on kind of like all of them.
 And then we're gonna go into more detail
 around like different segments of the market
 'cause obviously crypto isn't just one thing.
 There's like multiple different ways people can get in.
 So some of the players that I think are going to be big
 or have a shot at being big in this area,
 obviously Coinbase because they're already big,
 but, you know, their audience is primarily crypto people.
 Robinhood obviously Stripe X apparently wants to, you know,
 become the everything app.
 I think already you've done like, you know,
 the partnership with Polymarket.
 And yeah, they're just saying that that's their intention
 and that competes with like the base app apparently
 'cause that's where they're going.
 Stablecoins, obviously, that's like a huge part
 of this next phase.
 So, you know, Tether Circle, some of the newer players,
 I mean, it could even be like an Athena
 or some of these new stable chains, you know,
 stable, plasma, et cetera.
 So, you know, just when you look at that landscape,
 like are there any particular ones
 that you feel like are better positioned than others?
 Or like, how do you think, you know,
 and I know this is just a broad question.
 We'll get more into like various parts of the market
 more specifically in a moment.
 But just when you look at this landscape,
 like how are you sort of thinking all of this will play out?
 - And then you're getting first dibs
 and all these questions, brother.
 (laughing)
 - Yeah, happy to.
 Well, first of all, just going back to Luca's comment
 about the Panggu sort of and Pudgy Pangguin
 is entering the family stack.
 I will say I stole my son's Panggu doll earlier this morning
 and yeah, he's, you know, he's getting
 all onboarded every day by this thing.
 So yeah, super cute.
 He's done a couple of these over here.
 - It's cute.
 It's a weird giraffe Pangguin mashup.
 - He loves it, he loves it.
 Okay, well, yeah, in terms of that question,
 I mean, yeah, obviously very, very broad question.
 I think, you know, zooming out of it.
 I think it's all the whole space
 is very positive sum at the moment.
 Like, I think every new entrant
 that is adding more firepower to the ecosystem,
 helping us build more tools and easier ways
 for people to access crypto is a good thing for everyone.
 And personally, yeah, I think,
 again, it's never been a better time to build in crypto.
 And, you know, to look at this point,
 you can really feel that we're in this inflection point
 at the moment.
 But yeah, I mean, there's a lot of different ways
 to slice and dice the answer.
 Maybe just to call one player out specifically.
 I think Stripe is a very interesting one
 that, you know, I think the payments angle specifically
 is one that has not really been cracked yet in the U.S.
 And I think has has been pointed at,
 or as, you know, payments has always been that use case,
 that's very illustrative of the power of crypto,
 send money anywhere in the world,
 low fees, instant access, et cetera.
 But I think one that has, I think, gotten a little bit less
 love over things like DeFi and NFTs over the years.
 And so, you know, I don't have a couple different theories
 for why that is, but I think in terms of who I'm most excited
 about, I think Stripe is probably one of the ones
 that has maybe the potential largest asymmetric upside
 for the space specifically.
 But other ones like X, I think that's also quite interesting
 just 'cause they do have their own very large distribution
 user base that is obviously, there's a lot of overlap
 with crypto Twitter, but I think it's oftentimes
 hard to comprehend how much huge,
 how many people are really out there
 that actually never have heard of crypto
 or touched crypto yet.
 And so I think that, you know, really excited for X as well
 and how they could be potential to entry point
 and, you know, ultimately a source of users
 for everyone in the ecosystem.
 Those are just two right off the bat.
 Happy to talk more about specifics,
 but, you know, just a couple that I'm excited about.
 - Yeah, I'll probably, I'll give you three,
 two of which you mentioned, one that you probably didn't,
 number one that you didn't.
 I think the greatest branding, call it what you want.
 Sigh, I was gonna say, "Sigh, I'm gonna mess the right word."
 USDC, US dollar coin.
 I mean, you've gotta fuck that up.
 You've gotta mess, you've gotta intentionally mess that up
 because the branding on US dollar coin,
 I mean, the trust around that positioning
 and that ticker and that framing is just like,
 if stable coins are going to win, US dollar coin will win.
 And you've gotta intentionally blow that one up.
 I think Robinhood's a real dark horse here.
 You know, the coin-based product's not as good as it should be.
 And I say this is an avid holder and lover of Coinbase
 and what they've done for the space.
 But the Robinhood product team,
 I mean, Brandi, you've probably assessed this,
 is incredible.
 I mean, probably one of the best FinTech product teams
 of all time.
 I mean, it is so robust and deep.
 And I can tell you this is a serious Robinhood power user.
 They capture every part of my financial life.
 And if they want to go on chain
 and then they wanna do it right,
 they're gonna be a seriously big player here.
 And then one that might be interesting
 that you didn't mention,
 but they're running the right playbook is World Liberty Financial.
 I know people haven't seen the product.
 The Anchor Style thesis not built on 20% yields,
 you know, with the whole Luna backing.
 That had real PMF and it worked.
 And actually, I'm curious, Brandon,
 you could maybe give us some insights here.
 Specifically around, I think, the EVM ecosystem.
 I think World Liberty, and then, you know, frankly,
 Brandon, I put you guys up here.
 I would love to buy some Phantom secondary
 at anybody who wants to help.
 But if you guys just speak--
 - Well, we'll broker an OTC deal right here, right now.
 - If anyone wants to sell some Phantom OTC, I'd buy it.
 Because I do think these middle layers
 have all the upside to capture, right?
 And so I'll bring up, honestly,
 I have to bring up Phantom 'cause Phantom's earned its strike
 even before I bring that up,
 which is you own the user behavior
 and you can capture the problem with the beauty
 with middle layers like Phantom,
 and I describe it as middle layers
 'cause kind of between the consumer and the chain,
 is like you leak none of the value.
 You can capture all of the value, right?
 And so, you know, at any point in time,
 depending on how risk adverse Brandon and team decide to be,
 you know, they could launch any of the most--
 any net new profitable, extremely groundbreaking business
 that comes out of crypto, if they wanted to,
 they could fork, plug it into their distribution
 and capture all of that value, right?
 Like a perfect example of this
 is if Phantom launched a token launcher,
 if not saying they would,
 they would own that entire market, in my opinion, right?
 Or they would be a serious contender, right?
 And so the beauty is, is like, again, going to what we said
 earlier, we're like, where's the value gonna accrue?
 It's gonna accrue to the guys making the money
 and owning the user interfaces
 where all the money's gonna be made.
 Even on the abstract side, so we have a blockchain,
 our whole focus is owning the consumer interface,
 I don't even care about anything else,
 because the blockchain business is a bad business,
 the middle layer business is the business.
 And so World Liberty is interesting,
 and I'm sure Phantom and you guys have thought about this,
 specifically around the USD one implementation, right?
 Because if you own the interface, right,
 what is proven to be one of the three most profitable
 businesses in crypto, stable coin yields
 that once it hits, escape velocity, trading and token launching.
 I mean, on paper, you know, and stable coin yields
 would maybe bake that in a DeFi, right?
 You know, Brandon already has won the trading, right?
 So I can trade directly on Phantom,
 and it's probably an amazing business line for them.
 We won't get into that.
 But, you know, I do really like World Liberty's approach.
 I thought it was really ingenious.
 USD one was super ingenious, I thought.
 And just owning a consumer layer that feels like a bank,
 I've kind of a little peek under the hood there
 in terms of what they're doing.
 That with the stable coins.
 I'd actually be interested into Brandon,
 if you guys have explored stable coins,
 I don't wanna, I can take this thing on a tangent.
 So Laura, you know, feel free to step in
 and control this conversation,
 'cause I can take this many different ways.
 But the middle layer is gonna be the most profitable,
 important business layer in crypto.
 Phantom has shown unbelievable competency
 from the product side, best in class product.
 You know, and if and when they decide to go public,
 and they wanna make revenue,
 they can make endless amounts of revenue.
 You know, I saw that with the,
 I'm curious if you guys make money
 on the perps, on the hype implementation.
 I think you do, right?
 It's just so smart.
 So owning the middle layer is going to be the best business
 in crypto and where all the money's gonna be made.
 And that's why, Brandon, I'm ready,
 ready for a secondary check at any moment in time
 for you or any of your employees, brother.
 - Well, yeah, I won't look at thank you so much
 for gassing me up like that on the podcast.
 I appreciate it.
 And yeah, I mean, I think, yeah, you get into,
 you make a lot of good points that I think I'll underscore.
 I think, yeah, owning the end user
 is the most important and most strategic place to be in.
 And not only the crypto industry,
 but it's actually an, it's an internet thing.
 It's an internet-based phenomenon.
 You know, and I'm not sure if, yeah,
 any either of you or anyone in the audience
 that is familiar with Ben Thompson's Like Aviation Theory
 where I think pre-internet, sort of the value chain
 looked a lot different.
 I think that it was actually,
 it was not the distributors, but it was the suppliers
 that would make a large amount of revenue
 and capture a lot of value.
 You know, I think like retailers or newspapers
 or like TV channels and music labels and things like that.
 And then once the internet really brought
 an open and permissionless communication layer to the world,
 it sort of created this power dynamic word now.
 Distribution, it's much easier to create supply
 and the infrastructures there.
 And what really matters is actually owning
 that distribution point and being that place
 where the experience is aggregated to the end user.
 I think Phantom has a very similar structure
 in that there's, you know, there's a crypto blockchains
 which is open permissionless ways to create and store
 and transfer value on the internet.
 And they have this same open permissionless structure
 that allows any developer on the world
 to deploy something new, try a new experiment, et cetera.
 And yeah, the distribution points are really going to be
 folks who like wallets and other user facing applications
 that are actually helping users explore
 and use those things in a safe and easy to use way
 and actually earning their trust over time.
 And yeah, that does allow us to launch different types
 of business lines, trading, perps,
 which has definitely been, you know, a huge one for us lately.
 And then yes, like Luca mentioned,
 definitely other potential lines that we're thinking about,
 including stable coins, payments, like I mentioned.
 - Who's your biggest threat Brandon?
 Who do you think is your, and I could give you my answer
 if you will care for it, but who's your biggest threat you think?
 - Yeah, well, I think personally it's, you know,
 you've mentioned them already.
 I think Robinhood is, their product team is extremely craft.
 They've been at it for a while.
 And, you know, just from a pure resources
 and, you know, they're a huge public company
 with billions of dollars and thousands of people.
 So it's, you know, I'd be lying if I'd say,
 hey, that's not those who keep me up at night
 and who I consider to be our primary competitors.
 There's Coinbase as well, but I'd say Coinbase
 and Robinhood are very different companies
 in that Robinhood.
 We're much more similar to Robinhood
 than that we're a product-led company.
 Coinbase is, in my eyes, more of a financial services company
 or sort of like trying to become a bank,
 like the JP Morgan of crypto, which that's great.
 That's something that we all need as an ecosystem
 and participants in the ecosystem.
 But banks, you know, banks are different for, you know,
 JP Morgan's not the same thing as Robinhood.
 And, you know, although they are both very large players
 and they compete on the fringes,
 I think their core competencies and core user base
 are quite different.
 And so, you know, and I find that Robinhood generally,
 I think, aligns a little bit more
 with kind of the direction that we're going.
 - I mean, I feel like, you know, in terms of kind of
 the strengths and weaknesses of the different players,
 I think you're right that like Coinbase,
 they kind of have their bases covered.
 Wow, I just made a pun that I did not intend to.
 But, you know, it's kind of like,
 no matter how the competition plays out,
 they're going to benefit in some way.
 The question is just, will they be a leader
 in any one of these areas?
 You know, they kind of, they're doing all the things.
 And I feel like, you know, the base up
 is their first attempt at creating a strong retail product.
 And, you know, I think Jesse Pollock is amazing.
 Clearly, like, you know, when you saw the day
 that they made their announcement, like, you know,
 he's just, he's just very, he's a, he's,
 you can tell he's a believer in what he does.
 You know, he's just, he's just very enthusiastic.
 He's very smart.
 And obviously, I haven't played around
 with a new version of the app, but like, you know,
 I know that he can be scrappy and like, you know,
 pivot or, you know, whatever.
 And he has a lot of ideas.
 So, in that sense, like, I feel like, yeah, I feel like,
 if you're going to kind of have a different type of product
 come out of, out of Coinbase, like, I could see, you know,
 Jesse doing a good job of leaving that.
 But I agree with you that like,
 something like a Robinhood or X, they're both,
 they're both like very sticky for users, you know?
 And so that is, is just a strong point for either of them.
 But okay, so in a moment, we're gonna get to kind of
 all the different specific areas.
 But first, we have an announcement here at Unchained,
 which is that our crypto and macro show Bits and Bits
 now has its own feeds.
 So we're spinning it off from the Unchained feed,
 we're moving to a new podcast and a YouTube channel.
 It also has its own X account.
 So if you want to keep up with the weekly live streams
 and get your macro meets crypto breakdown,
 be sure to subscribe to the Bits and Bits channel
 on X, YouTube, any, you know, podcast platform.
 And you can find all of them linked
 at unchainedcrypto.com/bits and Bits.
 And then the other thing is we have another announcement,
 which is that we are doing our audience survey
 and we've got a great perk for you.
 Our sponsor Falcon X is giving Unchained listeners
 four free weeks of focal,
 their AI powered assistant for crypto traders.
 Normally new users get a two week trial,
 but if you take our survey, you will get double the access
 four weeks for free.
 Focal was built for institutions.
 Now it's available to serious traders like you.
 It helps you track price action,
 token unlocks news and open interest all in one place.
 So you can move faster in 24/7 markets.
 And as a bonus, survey respondents will also be entered
 to win a free one year subscription
 to our brand new newsletter Bits and Bits.
 So you can go to unchainedcrypto.com/survey
 to fill it out and get your four free weeks of focal.
 Again, that's unchainedcrypto.com/survey.
 Traditional stable coin yield
 often comes with hidden risks or long lockups
 that limit your flexibility.
 Re-changes that with two transparent regulated options
 that earn both yield and points.
 Re-USD offers up to 8% APY backed by ETH basis strategies
 or treasury bills, perfect for treasuries and market makers
 who need liquidity without underwriting risk.
 For higher yield seekers, Re-USDE provides up to 16% APY
 backed by fully collateralized US insurance programs,
 including homeowners, auto insurance policies,
 compensation and more.
 All assets are transparently reported on-chain
 and written against regulated counter-parties
 for maximum security.
 Whether you're managing a Dow treasury
 or seeking uncorrelated yield opportunities,
 Re delivers stable returns plus points
 without the volatility.
 Start earning today at re.xyz.
 Re.xyz.
 Mantle leads the establishment of blockchain for banking
 as the next frontier.
 UR is the access layer that transforms Mantle Network
 into a purpose-built vertical platform,
 the blockchain for banking that enables financial services
 on-chain.
 UR unifies and vertically aligns Mantle's focus
 on payments, trading and assets.
 MI4, Emmeath Protocol, Functions FVDC,
 supported by developer grants, ecosystem incentives
 and the industry-leading distribution platform
 through the UR app, rewards station and buy-bit launch poll.
 All economic activity within UR
 will be captured by Mantle Network
 to further drive value to token holders
 and establish its significance in blockchain for banking.
 Follow Mantle, underscore official, to learn more.
 Okay, back to my conversation with Luca and Brandon.
 All right, so let's talk about payments.
 And I'm starting with this because it sort of feels
 like this whole stablecoin payments thing.
 This is gonna be kind of the next phase of adoption.
 Crypto people, they know how to transact,
 they have their wallet, whatever,
 but non-crypto people, they're not using crypto generally.
 So to my mind at this moment,
 I would say Coinbase with a Shopify deal,
 Stripe with Tempo, and then any of these stablecoin chains
 that we talked about, Plasma, Stable, et cetera.
 To my mind, these are the main players in this area.
 There are some other ones with PayPal had its own stablecoin,
 but it hasn't really taken off.
 So I wondered if you could just talk a little bit
 about how you think the competition will play out here,
 like which players you think have a stronger position
 versus others and what are kind of the make or break factors?
 - Well, yeah, one other dark horse that I'll mention
 are not really dark horse.
 Quite the opposite is USDT as well,
 and in thinking about payments
 in more of like a broader, non-US centric view.
 So I think I'll add them to the mix as well
 in this general topic, but yeah,
 I think payments is super interesting.
 I think there's two types of payments broadly.
 There's peer-to-peer payments,
 and users are sending dollars to one another.
 And then there's consumer to merchant payments
 where a consumer is paying a merchant for our greater service.
 So I think there's a different,
 you can kind of break down the topping in those two ways.
 I'll say in general, I think the business to consumer side
 has been largely an issue of a merchant side acceptance.
 So the problem is that most merchants
 don't know how to deal with crypto,
 they don't know how to manage it, accept it,
 they just want real US dollars.
 And so I think in my mind,
 that's sort of the biggest hurdles for payments
 to really take off as the merchant acceptance piece.
 And that's why I think generally Stripe
 is probably my pick or where I think,
 the player that I think is gonna help
 push this base the most is because they have
 the distribution point into the merchants of the world.
 I think most people, they think about point of sale,
 like real physical places where you can spend money,
 but Stripe obviously has a huge position
 on just the general e-commerce landscape.
 So that's the merchant side on the consumer side.
 - And just actually to ask more directly,
 so you feel like even though Coinbase
 already has this deal with Shopify
 that once Tempo is launched,
 like the competition is over or?
 - Well, no, no, no, no, definitely not.
 I mean, I think Tempo also is just,
 it's not even out yet, right?
 We have no idea and I think the biggest winners
 in this space are not really going to be known for a while.
 So certainly not once something is out,
 like they're just gonna win it or anything like that.
 But I think in terms of where I think the biggest problems are
 and how that matches up to the players that are coming in,
 I think I'm just matching,
 hey, biggest problem merchant side acceptance,
 biggest potential solution provider, I think Stripe.
 Now that being said, there obviously is a lot of work
 to be done on the consumer side experience as well.
 Of that equation, I do think Phantom to Lucas Point
 is one of the best zero to one entry points into crypto
 and actually getting stablecoin dollars into your,
 into your into user's hands.
 And so yeah, I think you expect us to be a pretty big player
 in this space as well over the coming years.
 But yeah, I think generally it's gonna take a while to play out
 and yeah, you know, whole side I haven't really talked about
 is like peer to peer consumer payments.
 And that's an area that I think has generally been pretty uncorropped.
 - Do you wanna, do you have any thoughts on that?
 Or do you feel like it'll start more with the B2B type,
 or sorry, B2C, I guess?
 - I think in the US, it's gonna start a little bit more,
 more B2C and people are gonna start to see,
 especially merchants are gonna see the benefits
 of that a lot sooner because of,
 because of, you know, they have a lot more margin to save
 when they're, by adopting blockchain technologies, right?
 They give up 3% to card networks.
 They're not usually not earning yield on the dollars
 that they received directly.
 And so I think combination of stable coins
 and blockchain networks really moved in needle for them.
 Whereas in the US, peer to peer payments is a largely,
 I think with you ask the normal person off the street,
 it feels like a largely solved issue.
 Like people use Venmo and Square Cash
 and they feel like that's fine.
 And so whereas in the emerging markets, you know,
 that infrastructure,
 triified infrastructure is not,
 trusted triified infrastructure is not necessarily there.
 And then that's why you see UST adopted a lot more
 'cause the value prop is there for them.
 So anyway, so yeah, I think basically B2C payments
 is I think where we're gonna see the US market really pick up
 because the value prop for merchants is really there.
 And it has been more of a,
 it's been more of a usability issue for them
 in terms of like how they've actually been able,
 like do they have the tools and everything to be able to,
 to tackle these or like to actually take advantage
 of the, of all the improvements.
 So yeah, that's just kind of high level thesis, but.
 - Yeah, Laura, I have a question.
 When you ask that question, like define stable coin success
 'cause I think there's like,
 there's a couple answers to this, right?
 Like my answer for who will win the stable coin race
 from net new B2C users would be different from,
 you know, monthly and yearly stable coin volume
 would be different from highest revenue generator.
 So just what would you like define the number one metric
 for stable coin success?
 You know, is it issuance, is it volume?
 And I think I can give you an answer on that.
 And then, yeah, I'll ask that and I have another answer
 that's a little separate, but we're staying separate.
 - Yeah, I guess I would,
 I was thinking like users in volume, but I,
 so I agree that there should be two buckets
 as Brandon pointed out, but I, my personal view
 is it will likely start with things like Stripe, you know,
 just getting stable coins into the hands of users,
 getting them used to using a wallet, that sort of thing.
 But eventually, yeah, I do think people will be paying each other
 in stable coins.
 So sort of like a two phase rollout.
 So maybe if you wanna answer for both phases.
 - Yeah, so I think, I think the answer depends
 and I think they'll do this
 because it's more advantageous for them to do this.
 If Stripe flips a switch and everything runs through
 like a dollar and then auto converts to a stable coin,
 it's gonna really be hard to beat that just naturally on volume
 'cause they can convert all their volume into stable coin volume.
 Again, that's more of like an engineering question.
 And, but from a feasibility perspective, right,
 if they're getting yield and all the perks that come from that,
 Stripe would be very hard to beat there.
 I actually think, and I, and FANO might be working
 in this direction, but I actually think there's a,
 a Zell cash app style product, which kind of I got the vibe
 of when you guys issued, issued usernames
 in terms of like net new adoption on like a new behavioral pattern.
 I think it's either gonna be an incumbent like FANOM
 or it's gonna be a new startup
 and we've yet to see them.
 It's gonna be a, it's gonna be a,
 so I'm very like, I think, I think there's actually
 an arbitrage opportunity where you take all of the FinTech incumbents,
 consumer FinTech incumbents,
 and you just replicate the exact business on,
 on stablecoin blockchain rails.
 And I think there's something super competitive there
 because it, because the app literally just becomes borderless.
 And I don't believe in these multibillion dollar
 incumbents ability to pivot,
 which goes into my next state, my next statement,
 which is like, what a fumble by PayPal
 because they were so ahead of the curve.
 They saw it coming, they saw it and they were first.
 And all these stablecoin companies just saw circles,
 big IPO run up.
 And I was trading PayPal is like somebody's gotta,
 somebody's gotta tell some story here.
 But, but it's just, it's just so,
 so to that point, which is why I said,
 it's either gonna take a, a team like Brandon's
 or a net new team to come in and take, you know,
 but I definitely would imagine that this is somewhere
 in, in FANOM's roadmap, which is like where, you know,
 what is PayPal's, look at PayPal's business,
 look at Square's business, look at Zell's business.
 And if you really just put that business
 on blockchain rails, right?
 And those usernames and those numbers, you know,
 become tied to wallets and on and off ramping is incredible.
 I mean, it is a hundred billion dollar business opportunity,
 right? And you can already see the market caps
 of whatever those guys are because those are really like,
 a lot of those guys have a majority of market share
 in the United States.
 I mean, you're then opening that market share
 to the entire planet, anyone with an internet connection.
 And that's why I'm so desperate for FANOM secondary
 because, or anybody who's building this in this spirit
 because this is gonna be the great unlock,
 but it's going to take a product first, young, hungry team
 who doesn't have, you know, who isn't comfortable
 with tons of info that they have to go and redo.
 That's why I don't believe the incumbents
 are gonna be able to pivot.
 I don't think Square's gonna be able to pivot.
 You would think somebody like PayPal would be able to pivot.
 That just showed me, you know, PayPal's lack of market share
 here shows me that what I'm saying is true.
 And Zell is just not gonna pivot.
 And there's not tech for, they're not product for.
 But this consumer product where everybody has a username
 and this username is permissionless from me to China,
 to Africa, to, you know, anywhere on the planet.
 Just give me an internet connection.
 I can send you some dollars
 and you can put it into your bank account seamlessly,
 easily with great on and off ramping.
 The hard part in that product is really the banking, right?
 Banking, all of those different countries, that's where,
 so, you know, I have some ideas
 'cause I thought about this idea before incubating this product,
 but too big, too many, too much of a distraction
 off of our core focus.
 But the banking is, the off ramping
 is really the hard part there, but, you know,
 that's how integrating with the right,
 with certain partners in those regions can solve that issue.
 That, that is a ginormous business and a business
 that is gonna change how people just transact
 in the world, period.
 And I think will be the most valuable stablecoin business,
 especially if you compare that with your own stablecoin.
 Like that, to me, is the creme de la creme.
 Out, but then again, like I said,
 Stripe can turn on a switch and process all their volume
 through their native stablecoin on their chain
 and from a, you know, you won't be able to beat that,
 that tidal wave, but, you know, you know,
 a tidal wave can be beat by a multitude of miniature waves
 over the course of time.
 And so I'm most excited about that type of bit,
 that type of startup in the stablecoin space is,
 who's gonna disrupt PayPal, Zal and Cash App
 and do that on a universal global scale?
 Because that, that is the golden north star,
 I think, for stablecoins.
 It's less about like, and I wouldn't say less about,
 but I'm not that excited about, oh, I can pay for my,
 for my t-shirts on Shopify and stablecoins.
 Like I get that and that works
 and that performs the function of volume and revenue.
 I'm more excited about like the true breakthrough
 around crypto and blockchain.
 Like the thing that sold me in 2017,
 and I wish I was wiser then,
 but I was sold on the fact that blockchains
 enable the basic human right of being able to send money
 to somebody without somebody in the middle, right?
 And so there's a lot of different businesses
 that have disrupted and have enabled basic human rights,
 right, the basic human right to communicate with somebody.
 What is that that's social networks, right?
 The basic human rights to, you know,
 transact is stablecoins and payment rails.
 And this is where I think, you know,
 the fannoms of the world or some net new startup
 is who's going to be the company
 that owns the basic human right to transact freely
 with somebody from point A to point B
 at any place in the world.
 That is a multi-hundred billion dollar business.
 But that is gonna be built by somebody who's core,
 who's like less about the minutia of volume
 and more about the mission and the function of that mission
 of getting there than they are like, you know,
 buying my, you know, you know,
 buying some, some, some cop on Shopify, right?
 Like the, I'm more interested in like,
 I got a friend in Africa, I want to send some money
 to him and I can send him in one second.
 And he, you know, he already performs that function,
 you know, in a retrospect, right?
 So, yeah.
 - Yeah, it's funny what you said
 about how there must be a story at PayPal,
 'cause I don't know if you saw Jose de Ponte
 who used to head up their crypto efforts left recently,
 went to Stellar.
 And yeah, when I look at DeFi llama,
 I see why USD is 10th on the list of stablecoins
 in terms of market cap at 1.2 billion.
 So-- - I'm gonna deal with PayPal.
 I've been asking.
 So maybe we can comment on how stablecoin is.
 (laughs)
 - Effort.
 - Well, so one thing, and I know like, you know,
 you said for you, the strike thing wasn't
 so, no, actually before I ask that.
 While you were talking, I was thinking about the Solana Seeker
 because I was like, okay, that's actually really interesting.
 Here you have hardware, and you know, this new version has,
 it's basically like a hardware wallet, but it's your phone.
 And it's like, you know, it uses biometrics and all this stuff.
 And I wondered like, do you think that that is like a way
 that suddenly now we could have like a different entrant,
 a different type of entrant, like a totally, you know,
 coming in from this, what's that word, or orthogonal manner?
 - I do.
 I think the problem with that at scale is for those,
 for hardware products to work or any product to work,
 hardware or software, it has to be a better product,
 or at least has to be some semblance of a better product.
 You have to be close.
 The problem with a phone is you're never gonna beat
 the incumbents, you're gonna have to be
 the real superstar talent.
 And so I would, I think Solana Seeker
 has amazing implications in a more holistic fashion
 than I think the fashion that maybe we're describing,
 because I think Brandon will be able to be,
 like if they were going heads up on stablecoins payments,
 there's no chance Solana is gonna,
 Seeker is gonna compete with Phantom.
 Phantom is just, you know, it's too much of an extra step
 in the conversion process, but it's for a different use case.
 Like I do think, I do think hardware plays a role,
 and I do think there is products around hardware,
 and I think Solana Seeker can be incredibly successful.
 Do I, but like why didn't PayPal create hardware?
 Any of these guys create hardware,
 I think it's for good reason,
 and I think they've underwritten and understood why.
 But Solana Seeker, I like better as an ecosystem product,
 right to perform a multitude of different functions,
 versus the conversation we're having now,
 which is like stablecoins perform one function,
 get dollars from point A to point B,
 and that is gonna be a masterclass in software,
 and you know, Brandon so far is honestly,
 frankly leading the charge there.
 But I do think Solana Seeker in a holistic crypto,
 you know, hardware product,
 like there's multiple implications that are,
 from a chain perspective, it's actually
 a very bright direction, I think, from first Solana.
 Because like my whole ethos is I think chains
 are gonna have to do one thing,
 is they're gonna have to own the consumer interface.
 And owning the consumer interface through a hardware product
 is actually a place like most of us aren't even thinking about,
 and so it's a really big swing down a very ambitious
 direction that I support,
 and there's a lot of implications to that product
 that make the crypto experience better.
 But for the sake of the stablecoin conversation,
 it doesn't move the needle in my opinion.
 - Yeah, by the way, Brandon, I didn't know I invited
 your number one fan.
 (laughing)
 - Yeah, thanks so much, Luca.
 Well, you know, generally I agree with everything Luca said,
 I mean, especially the parts where,
 you know, you mentioned Phantom is leading charge.
 Hard work for Seeker specifically, you know,
 hardware is, it's vastly different from software, obviously,
 and that there's huge economies of scale involved,
 and you know, it just, it doesn't really seem plausible
 to me that competing, Seeker competing with iPhone
 is really like playing a game to win.
 I think Seeker's, they're playing a little bit
 of a different game, and Solana is very, very good at,
 it's very well positioned to do something that's
 where they're very well capitalized,
 and they can make the, they can paint visions for people
 to actually push the industry forward.
 And so I think, yeah, the Seeker's a really good example
 of what can be built on crypto rails,
 but in my opinion, not necessarily going to really have
 a huge chance at competing with Apple and Android directly,
 and but I think that the crypto space is due
 for a hardware wallet shakeup.
 I think it's been, it's been a while since everyone's just
 sort of, you know, kind of accepted a ledger
 as sort of the main hardware, you know, player.
 And so really excited about what Seeker is going to do
 specifically there.
 But maybe unwinding conversation, two notches,
 and just going back to this sort of like global
 Peter Pure payments super app that takes advantage
 of stablecoins to really enable, you know,
 global interactions and payments.
 Yeah, huge fumble by PayPal and incumbents there.
 I think like we talked about structurally,
 it's really hard for these huge public companies to,
 hey, I mean, get on any kind of leading edge curve,
 but be I think specifically in crypto,
 I think, you know, all of them are,
 it's hard for them to really innovate without feeling
 like they may be killing their cold and loose in some way.
 And, you know, I don't blame them.
 They have a lot more to lose than upstart players.
 And so I think just structurally,
 you're going to see bigger players
 not really be able to effectively enter the space.
 And then I guess going all the way
 on the other end of the spectrum, though,
 I will say companies that are coming,
 there've been a lot of attempts at like crypto,
 Venmo or crypto, square cash throughout, you know,
 the history of crypto.
 And I think the biggest problem that those app spaces,
 the cold start problem where payments is a social thing.
 You're paying for point A to point B
 and both people need to be on that app, right?
 Starting from zero is a very difficult place to be,
 especially if you're just like,
 "Hey, we're coming out, we're competing directly with Venmo.
 "Why would I use this other app if all my friends
 "and everyone in my family and everyone
 "we're already paying is on Venmo.
 "It's a very hard proposition."
 That's why I think that you will see a player
 enter this space.
 You have an existing large user distribution,
 existing relationships with end consumers
 that already have that large captive audience
 and then are kind of layering different businesses
 and applications on top.
 You know, obviously that's the position that we're in,
 you know, position that folks like Robinhood
 and others are in as well.
 So I think that's sort of the dynamic.
 That's, I think, hurting the very bottom
 of like the net new folks.
 - Yeah, I feel like in a way crypto almost solves
 the cold start problem in the sense that
 as long as you have like chains that are compatible,
 like if you're, if multiple different wallet providers
 all take USDC on Ethereum or like, you know,
 Tether on Tron or, you know, whatever,
 then that like helps a little bit.
 But last thing just on the stablecoin piece is
 I wondered if you had any thoughts
 on how strikes acquisitions of like Privy or Bridge
 would help help them or like how that might shape
 how the adoption happens in the stablecoin space?
 - Yeah, I mean, well, I mean, Bridge is sort of an obvious one.
 You know, they can't, you know, they have to be,
 they have to be able to issue stablecoins
 and that this, that's Bridge allows them to really,
 well, I guess there's a couple of different aspects
 of Bridge.
 There's sort of the issuance business
 and then there's like stablecoin orchestration
 without Bridge, you know, they're not really be able to,
 they would have to start from zero
 in terms of like being able to build all those capabilities.
 And instead they're just accelerating their roadmap
 by buying like a, you know, extremely cracked
 and performant team.
 And so, you know, that obviously just really
 adds a lot of fuel to the fire in terms of
 issuing stablecoins, being able to move stablecoins
 from point A to B, being able to connect
 to all these bank accounts, et cetera.
 So that's huge.
 And then Privy is also an interesting one.
 I think that, you know, it's unclear exactly
 how they are going to fit into the whole strike stack,
 but, you know, one very natural place is
 in this merchant acceptance example that I gave earlier,
 it's like merchants, they don't want to accept crypto
 from end users because they don't know how to store it,
 they don't know how to manage it, et cetera.
 Now with Privy and having that sort of wall technology
 in house or stripe, it makes that,
 that side of the equation a lot easier.
 And so, yeah, I forget what the initial question is,
 but, you know, those definitely,
 those are definitely core infrastructure pieces
 that stripe has the core that is definitely going
 to allow them to be faster.
 So yeah, super excited about both of those.
 - Okay, Luca, do you want to add anything there?
 - Nothing to that.
 I mean, I think Brynn's asked to answer that question,
 but I did have a thought that I just want to share.
 - Oh, huh.
 - 'Cause I'm on my fan, I'm a fan boy spray.
 Brandon, you want to know when you made it?
 And I think this is probably like a tag team
 between your CMO and head of partnerships.
 The big swing for you is getting Phantom pre-installed
 on phones.
 That's the big swing.
 That's the really big swing.
 That's the deal.
 You've got to have somebody doing that full time.
 Get me pre-installed on phones.
 You don't need to go Android,
 'cause Android's your most likely bet here.
 This was like the great YouTube breakthrough.
 You're going to have to go to some smaller phones first,
 but that's the big one.
 Because the real technical guys will hate me
 for this statement, so I probably won't even say it,
 but you know, Phantom pre-installed on some phones
 is maybe half of the Solana seeker vision, probably, right?
 There's another half that obviously got to give credit for,
 but pre-installations, Phantom pre-installed,
 especially on the third world phone companies,
 the one in Zinn Africa and places like that, woo.
 That's a big one, dude.
 You've got to have one guy on that full time.
 So it wasn't pre-installed, but it was like featured
 when I opened up my seeker.
 It was like very prominently featured.
 I can't remember exactly.
 I probably have screenshots of it on my seeker,
 but I remember that it was like one of the first things
 that I downloaded because it was like,
 download this, basically.
 But anyway, okay, let's move on to talking about trading.
 I know you guys will be excited to talk about this
 because it features Robinhood, obviously.
 This is obviously another area of crypto adoption.
 This is one of the big pieces
 that has actually fueled crypto for a long time.
 And, you know, here we have two big players, Robinhood
 and Coinbase that are bringing perpetuals
 and just like getting more into derivatives.
 We have all this action with these like, you know,
 tokenized stocks or tokenized equity.
 And I wondered kind of when you look at like,
 the various things that are going on.
 And, you know, obviously like some of,
 so Robinhood was gonna do the tokenized equity
 on the Robinhood chain.
 But then we also had, you know, like Kraken doing the
 X stocks thing that was on Solana.
 And so I just wondered kind of like amongst all these
 different, you know, forays that we're seeing
 by these different companies into this world.
 Like who you think is best positioned and, you know,
 which products you think will take off
 and which you think are maybe not structured in a good way
 or their go to market isn't strong.
 - Well, yeah, definitely a lot of,
 definitely a pretty broad topic
 and a lot of different directions to go.
 And I think generally, you know, you are seeing,
 I think trading as an activity is morphing
 throughout generations, or I think prior to our generation,
 maybe our parents' generation trading was a very, very,
 you know, buttoned up financial activity
 that you would do at an institution, you know,
 and not something that would be done casually
 or be done for entertainment value, for example.
 Now with, I think the younger generations,
 especially you're seeing more of a sort of hyper
 financialization of entertainment, attention, et cetera,
 where trading in different types of sort of risk on activities
 like sports batting and things like that
 are becoming a lot more accessible,
 becoming a lot more mainstream.
 And so I think generally you'll see,
 I mean, the definition of trading and the use cases
 are just becoming a lot, a lot more different
 and a lot more in my mind, a lot more akin to entertainment
 or some seeking, you know, activity.
 And so, yeah, I think in terms of who's best set up for that,
 I think it's whoever has the hearts and minds
 and trust of the younger generation.
 And, you know, where those folks are, you know,
 storing their dollars and going towards.
 And so, yeah, you know, obviously Robinhood is,
 I think in that spot currently, at least in the US.
 But I think at the same time, another, obviously,
 you know, another trend that we all subscribe to here
 is that all financial activity is moving on chain, right?
 And so I think you'll see the true winner being
 not only the folks who can appeal to the next generation,
 but who are also effectively navigating
 what's going on in the on-chain environment?
 And yeah, props to Robinhood being, you know,
 being very forward there, launching their own chain
 and launching tokenized stocks and whatnot.
 And I'm glad they're pushing forward there.
 But whoever is mastering sort of what's the trends
 that are actually emerging on-chain in an on-chain first way
 and crossing that perfectly with sort of the new age
 attention is probably going to be
 the bigger biggest winner in this general trend.
 But of course, there's a lot of different subsections in that.
 - I like Brandon's answer.
 - Well, I mean, so you talked before
 about how you're such a big fanboy of Robinhood.
 So like, do you feel that Coinbase,
 like if you were Coinbase, what would you try to do
 to take on Robinhood in the trading arena?
 - It's the products are so different.
 And Coinbase has been known not to be a product team, right?
 Like you've almost just seen like the last couple big swings
 they took it back, they missed.
 All right, the NFT marketplace, a couple other things.
 And just like the product is just not comparable.
 I think Brandon is right.
 They should lean into, and I don't even look at that framing.
 I actually bullish Coinbase after that framing Brandon,
 which is like they should be the JP Morgan.
 That's what they should do, you know,
 like they should go all in there.
 'Cause I think like product is a DNA thing.
 It's very hard to go plug in like a seal team six
 and like very few people know how to do that.
 That starts from the top down, right?
 Coinbase is a deal maker.
 They're leverage, they have all the leverage.
 They know how to do deals.
 They have great brand rapport, great cash, first to market.
 Just go be JP Morgan.
 I think that was a, I think that was a really good framing
 that makes me bullish.
 So you feel like they should give up on what Brian Armstrong,
 the CEO always talks about,
 which is like bringing people on chain.
 Like what you're talking about is they should just stick
 with the centralized model and, you know,
 not try to push more decentralization.
 I think they should M&A those.
 Like they're in the business of if they want to be innovative,
 like buy the groups who are innovative
 that are building those solutions that they want.
 Like it just doesn't come across to me
 and I've been a Coinbase users in 2016.
 Like doesn't come across to me.
 Like every product has been better.
 Like why do they FTX even win?
 Because they like basically built a good product
 that was available in the States
 and people could finally trade sophisticated
 in a sophisticated fashion.
 Like Coinbase, FTX should have never gained
 in the market share, right?
 Coinbase should have had that mode.
 So just like I would, I would, in a perfect world,
 like totally yeah, go do the vision and the direction is right.
 I just don't think that team is built for that.
 If you just look at like the case studies
 and like that's just my third party assessment looking in.
 Like they just don't look like they're like again,
 a product team seems like a DNA thing, right?
 Something that starts from the top down.
 The top guy has to be a product guy.
 I don't know if Brian is today.
 Seems like he's a deal maker guy,
 a good decision maker guy,
 a guy who makes the right decisions, things like that.
 I don't know, 'cause you just look at Robinhood
 and I'm like the product is incredible.
 The same functions I try to perform on Coinbase
 had get notifications and blocks
 and I have to go through approvals and verifications
 and I do the same function on Robinhood
 who just opened up crypto deposits a year ago
 and it's a whole, no issues.
 Face scanning, past keys, the whole nine is just better.
 And I think being a part of being a good entrepreneur
 is sitting and living in your truth, right?
 Like understanding what you're good
 and what you're not good at.
 And usually if you're not a good product guy,
 you have to go buy product guys, right?
 Who are building the product that you wanna build
 or you just sit in your truth
 and realize you're not a product guy
 and you just go do what you are good at,
 which in my mind, like the USDC Coinbase deals
 a perfect example of what Coinbase is good at, deal making,
 right? Having the moat of the being the most established
 and credible, you know, arm in the US in crypto
 and levering that to go and do great deals
 that accrue value to shareholders.
 I just don't think it's just,
 it's not like Brandon and team, I think in a war room,
 you know, and just so you know,
 I think Jesse's top three builders in crypto.
 I think Jesse's phenomenal.
 And if anyone can pull it off, it's probably him.
 But you need one building product
 that doesn't come from one guy to unit.
 It's like, I found this, I got really blessed with my unit.
 I didn't know it at the time
 until a couple of years after looking back.
 Sometimes you just get lucky
 and you get the right people together.
 But I don't think one man can brute force product,
 especially when you're building base,
 which is an ecosystem, right?
 Like there's so many other layers to base
 that is not the app.
 The app is a layer and probably the vocal
 and nucleus layer.
 But the thing that he can solely focus
 on building product every day is an important,
 is I'd be remiss.
 So yeah, I mean, Robinhood is clearly a product first team.
 - Yeah.
 Yeah, I mean, it's very, you know, gamified and all that.
 Okay, before we wrap,
 we'll just tackle the last topic,
 which is, you know, we have like,
 these attempts at this everything app,
 like obviously base is probably the first one.
 They've said that they want to head there
 and they're doing,
 they did this partnership with Polymarket,
 they have another one with Cal, she, you know,
 who knows how they're going to do the rest of it.
 But I was just curious for your thoughts
 on like who you think would be best positioned here
 or what types of characteristics any players
 in this space would need in order to succeed.
 - Yeah.
 Well, the everything app thesis,
 well, generally I think I don't necessarily agree
 with trying to compete for the everything app.
 I mean, I think basically,
 if you're going to compete there and win there,
 you need to be an established humongous player
 with humongous distribution.
 So, you know, X potentially Facebook,
 potentially, you know, those types of players
 with that kind of humongous order of magnitude reach.
 Otherwise, you know,
 if you're trying to compete and by definition in everything,
 it's just a losing proposition.
 So, yeah, I mean, that's just,
 it's just literally setting yourself up to fail
 unless you have that god tier resources
 at your fingertips.
 And so I think, yeah, I think it's got to be folks
 who have those hundreds of millions to billions
 of existing users and are built on top of rails,
 you know, that allow them like true global reach
 and interactions.
 And so.
 - So you don't feel like the base app can bootstrap this,
 like they're already coming out of the gate,
 not going to be able to compete against something like X
 or any other existing social network?
 - I mean, I do.
 I think base app is going to be the next everything app.
 No, absolutely not.
 Like it's just humongous.
 It's just the, when you're an entrepreneur
 and you're an underdog,
 you basically have to pick and choose your vowels
 and you have to know what look it was saying.
 Like be in the truth of an embrace
 what you're good at and what you're not.
 And I think the proposition of just competing everywhere
 at the same time just doesn't make sense.
 And so yeah, I think that's why it's been so hard
 for in the West, you know, to have those true super apps.
 I think iOS and the app store is probably closest
 to the true super app of the West.
 - Like the whole operating system?
 - Yeah, I would say so in terms of it actually,
 yeah, the whole, the whole iPhone app store, iOS,
 I think that is the closest to like true super app
 that we have.
 And I mean, and what is the definition of an app?
 Really it's, it's so, you know, I think in the end,
 it's about owning the relationship with the end user
 and you know, Apple owns all those relationships.
 So, and that's why they have extreme pricing power
 on the app store and things like Apple Pay, et cetera.
 You know, in the East, it's just a little bit
 of a different setup.
 And you know, you have pseudo state sponsored companies
 and things like that.
 And so that gives those folks a lot
 of like unfair distribution power.
 Whereas in the East, sorry, in the West,
 yeah, I think you're gonna have to be
 one of those humongous players,
 whether it's a Google, Facebook, et cetera.
 So, yeah, that's kind of my take on it.
 - Luca, what about you?
 - You know, I kind of said this with blockchains
 and I think it's applicable,
 which is like this general purpose,
 we're gonna do everything approach.
 Like let's just go back to first principles here
 as what it means to be a successful entrepreneur.
 Like doing everything well at once is an impossible feat.
 And it's one that is like destined for failure.
 And like you can get lucky and, you know,
 maybe like a dart hits and it works.
 But just this idea of like doing every single thing well,
 I think is like a poor approach.
 So I don't, I believe in central destinations on,
 I believe in central middle layers
 to do everything on chain.
 I don't believe in the everything app.
 Like I think there should be,
 like I think Phantom does this well.
 You know, we, you know,
 I think we took inspiration on the Portal product,
 you know, World app also,
 I think it's thinking through this lens.
 I think there should be places
 to perform on chain functions.
 I just think sometimes when you're thinking about
 like crypto everything out,
 I think guys are trying to go do social
 and do like hundreds of different things.
 And I think that can get really convoluted
 really quick, really fast.
 So I believe there'll be iterations of it,
 but I think you need to find killer PMF
 in one vertical first.
 And then you scale the features out accordingly
 versus like coming out of the gates with these,
 you know, everything apps, you know,
 without people like without one feature working or sticking.
 I think it's probably how I would look at it through that lens.
 - Okay.
 Yeah. Well, we'll have to see what happens.
 I mean, they, you know, they're still in beta.
 So it's pretty close right now.
 And there are a few people are using it.
 You guys, this was super fun.
 Thank you so much for coming on Unchained.
 - I'm Travis Enchlora.
 - Unchained is produced by me,
 Laura Shin, who's helped from Matt Peltard,
 Juan Oranovich, Pamma Jumdar, and Marco Correa.
 Thanks for listening.
 (upbeat music)
