TITLE: How Crypto Networks Are Racing to Be the TradFi Chain - Bits + Bips
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4dL5GDpVvT8
VIDEO_ID: 4dL5GDpVvT8

TRANSCRIPT:
Ethereum, I agree with Chris's point. It is, in a way, like, traffic chain. It is traffic
 chain. So, design for that. It's got the Lindy effect. It's got the history.
 The Biden SEC systematically missed or failed to interdict every single major crypto fraud
 one after another. Like, they did not get FDX. They did not get Terraform Labs. They
 did not get Celsius. They did not get three arrows. Capital.
 When you have one of your biggest competitors run by a guy named Larry Fink saying, "I'm
 tokenizing everything." Well, he probably has a reason for doing that.
 Welcome, everyone, to yet another episode of Bits and Bips, where we explore how crypto
 and macro collide one basis point at a time. I am still your host, despite the best efforts
 of the SEC, Austin Campbell. I'm a high scholar of zero knowledge group, and I'm here with
 my usual two co-conspirators, Chris Perkins, the Golden Hand of Coin Fund, and Ramallah
 Wallia, Maester Welt, the head of Illumina. And today, we're joined with Elizabeth Kirby,
 the high lady of market structure at TradeWeb. And for those of you who are super crypto
 natives and unfamiliar with TradeWeb, I will summarize them only as thus, a huge amount
 of trading volume goes through TradeWeb. They are actually genuinely part of market infrastructure.
 So on that note, we have a bunch of things to discuss today, but I have to give you some
 disclaimers first. One, nothing we say here is investment advice. Check unchangedcrypto.com
 Bits and Bips for more disclosures. And second of all, a quick word from sponsors who make
 the show possible.
 Mantell is launching the Global Hackathon 2025 to accelerate the future of real world
 assets with a $150,000 prize pool, backing from a $4 billion treasury and direct access
 to buy bits 7 million plus users. This is the ultimate ecosystem for builders.
 All right, let's start with some breaking news. So in our lead up in discussion of what we're
 going to talk about today, news dropped that the Senate Banking Committee quote unquote
 has run out of time to mark up market structure legislation this year. And the hearing will
 now be pushed into the new year. I know we've discussed this once or twice and expressed
 maybe some skepticism about timeliness in the past, but I'll start Chris, what do you think
 is going on here?
 Yeah, I think both you and I, Austin, I don't want to say I told you so, but I told you
 so like we knew this was way too complex. Genius was like next to impossible to get across
 the board. Now everyone's freaking out that there's this whole interest issue going on.
 It's such a difficult piece of legislation. It's not even funny. And it's no surprise
 to me that it's getting pushed. We talked about some of the issues that we're holding
 it up. This maniacal focus on Donald Trump ethics that seems to be stopping everything.
 Additional issues maybe around DeFi where, look, we saw Citadel come out really, really
 hard against some of the DeFi provisions. Citadel is amazing in DC. And so like there
 are battles everywhere. You know, my sense, we talked with this with Patrick Whit when
 we had him on with White House and we asked him at the time, Patrick, you know, can we
 modularize this thing? Can we break it up a little bit? And at the time he's like, that's
 not my intent. I don't know that my sense personally is that's the direction that we're
 heading. But all that said, I think it's really important that the most important thing that
 we've been missing all this time is a taxonomy. What is a security? And what is a commodity?
 And I think these two agencies are going to give us that either way. And I think that's
 going to help open the institutional door because if you have a future, your commodity,
 if you're a commodity, we know how to treat you. If you're a security, you're not going
 to the grave anymore. Paul Atkins, Chairman Atkins is going to help you with a viable
 path in a via internet capital markets. So anyway, does it matter? I would say be nice
 to have something enshrined as we're going through election season, but we're going to
 be just fine. But I would love to hear what Ms. Trade Web has to say.
 Thanks. And first of all, thank you guys for having me. I'm so excited to be here. I'm
 excited to dig into some of these topics with you guys. Look, I agree. The unfortunate
 truth is I don't think it's terribly shocking that we didn't get this done this here. It's
 a massive, giant, multifaceted, hulking piece of legislation. And you know, as you guys
 have rightly mentioned, there are different groups that are focused on different elements
 of it. There are vastly, vastly different degrees of knowledge and understanding of these markets
 by the people, you know, who are kind of tasked with pushing it through. So there's a lot that
 has to happen. I think like the idea of modularizing it is kind of interesting, actually, because
 as much as we'd love to just get the whole thing kind of done, if that's not likely to
 happen or not likely to happen in as expedient a fashion as we would all like, then maybe
 there's some merit to trying to kind of break this apart and move pieces through that are
 maybe, you know, a little bit more straightforward or a little bit less controversial to certain
 groups. So I think that's interesting. But I also think, Chris, like you bring up a good
 point, which is that, you know, the SEC and the CFTC in the meantime are still giving
 us some stuff to work on and work with, you know, and the SEC put out a no action letter
 at the end of last week or on the DTCC and some of the tokenization stuff. The CFTC has
 been, you know, really pretty active over the past few weeks, even with the sort of like
 impending departure of the chair. So I think it's it's it's encouraging that both of those
 agencies are continuing to move forward a pace.
 Can I ask a question? So, you know, you're at the heart of institutional execution. And,
 you know, do you think that there needs to be a law passed for institutions to come in
 or, you know, are they coming in every single day? How do you think about it?
 When we talk to sort of like our constituents about these markets, and we talk to them about,
 you know, crypto markets, we also talk to them about tokenization of sort of, you know, real
 world existing, you know, assets. And one thing that I keep hearing is that there is
 a desire for sort of more traditional intermediaries and whether that's in the sort of realm of
 like liquidity provision, maybe a little bit, I almost think even, you know, that's a more
 kind of critical ask in the areas of sort of like custody or prime brokerage type activities.
 And so I think the question comes down to like, are those large kind of entrenched institutions
 that tend to provide those services in traditional markets going to be comfortable pressing ahead
 in the absence of like real kind of regulatory clarity and certainty? And that's where I'm
 just not sure. There's absolutely progress for sure. There's progress happening. And
 I think there's also a lot of like really good progress that's happening away from those
 traditional intermediaries. And we see that with, you know, the growth of these sort of
 crypto native PV and custody providers, absolutely, definitely the continued growth of crypto
 native liquidity, you know, providers and market. And so things are happening for sure.
 Will we still have this really interesting inflection point when the more traditional
 guys get involved? I still tend to think so. And so I think some of those more traditional
 guys are just going to want a little bit more clarity and certainty than what we also far
 on intended. Yeah.
 So I, yeah, I'll pile in there and raise a couple of things. One is if you remember
 back at the start of the genius debate, the Trump administration at that point was saying
 we want this link to market structure, we want them to pass at the same time. And I think
 as the summer went along, people realized, well, one of these is pretty achievable. And
 we might have a compromise that we can execute on right now. And the other one of these is
 oh boy. And so they did break them apart, you know, eventually have to have that moment
 of realization of we've got to take the parts we can get because otherwise we're probably
 going to get nothing. And that compromise was made. I can see a similar process playing
 out here. But two, I think some of the fight that we're having here is call it legitimate
 business interests colliding with each other. For instance, if I'm Citadel and right now
 I'm sitting on top of a massive proportion of US equities trading, I don't want this stuff
 tokenized. Right. I don't want AMMs taking business. I don't want other market making
 firms at a new market structure framework to step in like, I'm the single biggest beneficiary
 of equities market structure to a point that it's almost a monopoly. Of course, they don't
 want that to change. Fine. You know, and then you have the countervarying like forces from
 all the non incumbents who want to disrupt them. And quite frankly, in this one, and this is
 a weird alliance, some of the legacy banks who want to get back into the game who have
 been kind of forced out, right? And that, that's a real divergence. But two, I think
 there's also a stark divide here on just straight up education, like stablecoins were hard enough
 to explain. And those are, you know, honestly, pretty simple financial instruments, explaining
 some of the DeFi stuff to people in Congress who are like, still somewhat skeptical of
 how that magical like payments app PayPal works inside of their phone is like another
 whole level of Hill. And I say that, you know, Richie Torres has talked about this in Congress,
 but I say that in the form of some of this is just literally generational. Like if you
 were 75 years old, then the Senate, you did not grow up with the internet, right? This
 stuff is all new to you. And you're kind of like feeling your way around in the dark.
 We may have, I think with market structure, a bigger educational lift to do anything in
 DeFi than people realize.
 Yeah, I would add to that Trump's political capital is significantly diminished after
 the October elections and there's division in the MAGA wing. He's got to pick and choose
 his spots. The crypto group is essentially captive at this point. It's unlikely he's
 going to win or lose support on the margin. So the kind of he has crypto where they need
 to be and you need to win another election and you have to have a battle to fight for.
 So I think politically, he's going to focus on Main Street. That means tax cuts, rebates,
 stimulus checks, those kinds of policies, housing affordability. So I agree with all
 the comments that have been shared. It's just unlikely to see this come together. And that
 on the policy itself, it is very difficult to make a principal base distinction between
 rewards and earning interest. We could all get on a whiteboard and stare at it for eight
 hours. And it'd be very hard to demarcate that line.
 I mean, what on the, on the interest point, I was having this discussion maybe with somebody
 in the legislative space. And I made the point that like, what do you think you mean when
 you say ban interest? Because like the interest doesn't go away. It's a question of who gets
 to keep the money, right? Like we did not pass a bill saying if like money is in a stable
 coin reserve, the treasury itself doesn't have to pay on those T bills, right? That is not
 what we did here.
 So we're having an argument about do Paulo and Jeremy get bigger checks or do we distribute
 that to users? And I think when you start framing the discussion properly, you start
 sailing into interesting waters. I also published a paper over the weekend pointing out that
 the banking industry among many other things in there literally argued the reverse of this
 not too long ago to get rid of Reg Q. So it's quite interesting to hear them literally reverse
 the argument because I will remind everybody, the phrasing was not being able to pay interest
 in a modern market is uncompetitive and renders our products unusable. And they said that about
 bank deposits that couldn't pay interest. So this is what I mean. I think there's a lot
 of complicated forces that are going to be sailing into each other. And I think the government
 has provided anti clarity, if anything, on this point, we have to protect end users from
 receiving interest, right? That's, that's the goal, very, very dangerous. Chris, think
 of those bank executives who might have their bonuses reduced. How can you do that to them?
 I can't do that. All right. So before I get myself into more political trouble here,
 actually, let's just get into more political trouble. So recently, the New York Times dropped
 an article talking about the SEC, the Biden administration's efforts under, call it the
 previous regime around securities regulation. And to some extent, defending them and saying
 that Trump has co-opted crypto and like brought them in. All right. I have a lot of thoughts
 about this, but I'll hold my fire first and ask, what, what do you think of the New York
 Times article out there? We could start with our guest, if you want.
 Sure. No, thank you. This article, look, I mean, I think it didn't read to me as being
 like terribly kind of like objective reporting, maybe to make an understatement to begin with.
 Look, it's like you're comparing these two administrations, which are so wildly different
 in their approach. And, and the article really took this stance of sort of glorifying, you
 know, the way that Gensa was, was, was looking into these, you know, issues or, or enforcement
 actions that he was trying to take. And really, obviously, the intent of the article was to
 draw really a really clear line between the, you know, the sort of fact that many of those
 enforcement actions have gone away. And Donald Trump's personal business interests. I mean,
 I think even putting that part to the side, there's so much to unpack with without even
 touching the Donald Trump part of it. And what the article, of course, kind of like
 fails to really capture is that, that Gary Gensler era of, you know, regulation by enforcement
 was in and of itself like kind of first almost unprecedented in its nature and scope, but
 also was like not terribly popular. And so certainly, you know, commissioners who were
 at the SEC at that time, you ate in Pierce specifically. And you ate is currently there
 today were, you know, during that entire time of, of, you know, Gensler's chairmanship, really
 speaking out about how they were not in agreement with this kind of like, in for regulation
 by enforcement. And so I think there are plenty of questions that really could be raised around
 whether the SEC in a number of those cases either exceeded its authority, or, you know,
 in fact, there was basis for a lot of those enforcement actions. So while the article
 kind of talks about, look, there were all these enforcement actions, and now a lot of
 them kind of went away, it doesn't really get into like, were those enforcement actions
 legitimate to begin with or not? Which I think is like super important here. Obviously,
 the Atkins SEC is more deregulatory than Gary Gensler's SEC was, I don't think that's a
 particularly, you know, scandalous statement, but that's a fairly objective fact. I think
 like, we, you know, hopefully are getting to a point now, though, where we can be deregulatory
 in a way that spurs innovation and market kind of evolution at a pace that we all want
 to see. But, you know, I really do believe, and I'm interested in your thoughts on this,
 collectively, all of you guys, I think if we can, you know, if the official sector can
 kind of get some of this right, it can really act as an accelerant for these markets to
 take off in like a super meaningful way in the US. And we've, we've obviously been,
 you know, massively kind of stymied here in the US and digital markets and their ability
 to grow. So I mean, I'll pause there. I agree. I could, I could talk about this topic for
 a while.
 Yeah. All right. So as somebody who's been a long time critic of the Biden SEC, my biggest
 complaint with that article was the complete and utter lack of context. Right. If you look
 at the track record over there, the Biden SEC systematically missed or failed to interdict
 every single major crypto fraud one after another. Like they did not get FDX. They did
 not get Terraform labs. They did not get Celsius. They did not get three eras capital. They
 did not get block fine, not that they're fraud, but they did go bankrupt. Like one after another,
 users just got burned, got burned, got burned, got burned, got burned, got burned, got burned
 and the SEC did nothing either because they were way too slow on the draw or didn't even
 notice it was going on. At the same time, they spent a huge amount of political capital
 destroying and I'll go down a checklist here. So people remember this, a decentralized
 library project, an NFT project to make an animated show about cats that were getting
 high. They threatened, though, didn't proceed with a musician like issuing NFTs on the blockchain.
 And then they went after Coinbase, Kraken, et cetera, none of whom were alleged to have
 done anything wrong to users. So like, I'm just going to put it to you this way. Random
 yes, it would have hit more targets among the bad guys than what the SEC did, right? If
 you just randomly sent people notices among that group. And so it's hard to look at that
 and say, well, it's fair to write a journalistic article that fails to mention that context,
 right? Because it proceeds from, well, the Biden, like SEC was legitimate, therefore,
 but hold on, slow down, right? Like, what did you just say? Right? That's like being
 like, well, Enron was a legitimate company. So how could it have collapsed is like, well,
 maybe the counter reaction, but hold on. And so I look at this whole thing. And it just
 tells me like how broken a lot of the reporting apparatus is at some of these places to have
 an article like that hit a mainstream media publication with none of this context. No quotes
 from people on the other side of things and really like no informed skepticism at all.
 Because like Chris likes to joke about this, but real talk when I was on 60 minutes, right?
 Like I'll tell everybody I was sitting with Scott Pelley and the editorial and reporting
 team there. And we were talking about things like CZ's pardon. And they were asking about
 it and comparing it to like what had happened with HSBC. And it really helped them hone in
 on a story that was more about governance and the pay to play rather than the legitimacy
 of like finances actions or not, because they were able to correctly identify like, wait
 a minute, some trad five people actually did some awful stuff and did not go to jail.
 Okay, right. And there was just none of that in the times, right? Like no context.
 Yeah, I'll be brief on the times. I don't read the New York Times. I also don't read
 the economists. It's a backward looking it's negative alpha. Modern media is mostly confirmation
 bias. There was also like a hit piece on David Sacks on AI the week before. Yeah, I don't
 think it's a good use of attention. You know, I don't know. I think there's still a big
 battle for the mainstream mind. You know, we talked about crypto being on on 60 minutes,
 like three weeks in a row between Austin prediction markets and finance. So I don't think mainstream
 really has really got their head around crypto just yet. Looking at the New York Times and
 by the way, funny aside, I was actually with Scott Pelly in Ramadi. I almost got him killed
 next next time you see him tell him I'm sorry. But when you look at that article, you always
 got to go to the referee in the courts, right, during the administration. Gary Gensler lost.
 He lost over and over again at the cost of the taxpayer. And so without really diving
 into that track record, it's it's awful, right? And the damage that Gary Gensler did, I would
 say it's directly related to the stress that we saw in 10 10, where retail got obliterated
 because we forced derivatives offshore. That's on him. And then also the things that you specified
 Austin. So look, it's it's shameful. But the biggest issue that I have right now is the
 polarization and the politicalization of crypto. It makes no sense to me. In 1999, Al Gore came
 out and talked about how he invented the internet and he got a lot of flack for it. But he was
 a Democrat, right? And he was saying, I'm pro innovation. I did this, right? The internet
 is here. It was me, right? And now we have a party or elements of a party. I wouldn't
 say it's a party because I've spoken to plenty of Democrats and they're bullish. But we have
 element fringe elements, right? Yeah, like you, Austin, that are now saying, wait, I'm anti technology. I'm anti innovation.
 That's not American. And so I don't know why we're departing from these values. And even
 when you dissect the ideology of this part of the party, the progressives, they want to
 have give people the right access that they've been denied. So it like confounds me that this
 is like the most progressive technology out there. And they, they sit there more in favor
 of the way things are. I just don't get. Alright, so speaking of the way things are, let's
 talk about somebody coming from that past world and moving into the future. So JP Morgan
 just launched a tokenized money market fund on Ethereum. Looks like it's seating it with
 a hundred million of its own capital. I believe it's called money. It is a private fund for
 qualified investors. You can subscribe via cash or USDC. And to be honest, it seems like
 one of the instruments that already exists coming out of a black rock coming out of a
 Franklin Templeton coming out of wisdom tree coming out of super state. Like time and time
 again, we've seen people starting to tokenize call it the raw material, which is money
 market funds. But what's interesting to me is two things. One, this is an OCC regulated
 bank. So that's new. The fact that this is coming out of somebody from the bank regulatory
 framework with how negative they've been is eye opening. And two, although this is a tiny
 amount of money for JP Morgan, because to be clear, we're talking a well over $3 trillion
 balance sheet over there for the listeners. Like this is an institution where the CEO has
 been openly skeptical of Bitcoin and blockchain technology in the past. So what do we make
 of JP Morgan in particular, starting after this space? Who's the target customer for
 this, first of all, right? So you have to be a qualified purchaser, a million plus. Go
 ahead, Chris. No, no, that's what it was. You got it. So is the institutions or high net worth?
 I think it qualified. It's probably institutions is my guess, like, yeah, or or they're just
 guessing, right? Because I think you've got to beg to the question of, do they know who
 the target audience is? Oh, I'm sure they know. JP Morgan, let me know this Austin. JP Morgan
 was a customer first business. They know the customer target. If if it's institutional,
 then they're going after real time settlement. And they went after capital markets, use cases
 or trying to free up the capital that's tied up in T plus three set on the depending what
 instrument you're discussing. Obviously trade web is a part of that ecosystem too.
 Yeah, I would love to just make it easier for you to take is tokenized collateral? How
 do you think about it? Yeah, I think, well, the collateral thing is definitely interesting.
 And we've been seeing, you know, the other tokenized money market funds too. You know,
 I think it's a good question around who's the target customer, because the other issuers
 Austin that you were mentioning, I mean, there's been some modest kind of inflows to those
 products. But, you know, I'm not sure that it has, I think, been like total total game
 changers. So while I think the product makes sense, and yeah, again, I don't know where
 the target customer is. I don't know if it's sort of like a corporate treasure type person,
 you know, or somebody who wants to utilize kind of on chain, you know, collateral for
 other reasons, which seems like a slightly like, you know, more niche audience at this
 point. But it might also be like, are these just sort of a kind of path of least resistance
 to start dipping a toe into the water of, you know, tokenized issuance? And maybe, you
 know, we're going to see it expand from there. Yeah, I don't know. I think these are all
 the questions.
 So my two cents, you have there. So Jimmy Morgan, this is actually the asset management
 side of the business, right? They're about a $4 trillion asset manager, which is separate
 and distinct, but related to the bank, right? And when you have one of your biggest competitors
 run by a guy named Larry Fink saying, I'm tokenizing everything. Well, he probably has
 a reason for doing that. I think the reason is, you know, amongst other things, better
 collateral mobility, you're seeing the CFTC coming out saying, Hey, this is going to be
 great. We're going to enhance collateralization is going to be faster and real. That provides
 demand and utility amongst those institutions that need to settle their derivatives obligations.
 And gosh, BlackRock's doing it and you're not, you're going to get left behind guys. Sorry
 about it. And so I, it's no surprise. Like, when's GSAM going to have their tokenized
 money market fund, right? And I think everyone is going to tokenize. We've talked about this
 in the past. The equity market's going to tokenize. But when I think about money market funds,
 the real utility, do treasureers sweep them? Yes, they sweep into money market funds all
 the time and the faster you can affect that sweeping, you can maybe clip additional yield.
 I think Franklin Templeton has a, they're money market fund. I think they literally capture
 interest to like the minute or the hour or something. And so if that's your case and
 you're sweeping it, you know, every day, you're going to maximize your yield to that product.
 If you're moving it to your senior, your ice obligations on the riverside, there's utility
 there. So you got to do it. No, it's a meat to response table stakes. You got to be in
 the game. Well, I think that's where the industry is, right? It's not even me too. It's like,
 if you don't have it, what are you doing? Because you're, you're not going to have that utility
 for your end users. Again, like we go back to like equities markets, right? There's going
 to be a day when the equity market tokenizes to $127 trillion, right? I'm a fiduciary. You're
 a fiduciary rom. If it's, if there's enough liquidity, you got to buy the token. You have
 to buy the one standard that emerges, especially if it's used for settlement and clearing. There
 should be one standard that gains adoption. Blockrock has an incredible edge because they
 represent the buy side, whereas the investment banks are competing with one another and they
 don't want to use their competitor's product. No, but conversely, right, I think this is
 why the things we're seeing tokenized first or the government money market funds because
 realistically speaking, like a tea bill fund run by like a JP Morgan asset management to
 Blackrock, a fidelity of Vanguard, a Goldman Sachs, they're all fundamentally close to
 identical. Like, are they perfectly identical? No, but like you would take one share for
 another in a way you would not with bank deposits. But who, where are they going to trade? Liz?
 You know, you have these funny books. Exactly. How's that going to play out? Right. So I mean,
 Liz, what would it be in your interest to work with a tokenized money market firm issued
 by an investment bank or a party like Blackrock? Honestly, from our perspective, like I don't
 think we really care. We would certainly like, you know, our general thesis is to offer,
 you know, the full sweetest suite of products that, you know, our customers and or potential
 customers would want to trade. So, you know, we are engaged with all of these tokenized
 money market fund issuers today. We are, you know, actively kind of working on projects
 to support transacting and, you know, as well as sort of, you know, purchase and sale of
 these products. We're also, you know, doing a bunch of things around tokenized repo and
 to allow people to have access to repo markets on the weekends on a 24 by seven basis when
 repo traditional repo markets are shut. As of now that the repo traits that we've done,
 the collateral leg has been a tokenized T bill. But like, could that be a tokenized money
 market fund? Sure. Definitely could be. So we're talking, you guys are talking about
 very similar products, but with separate companies behind them, my mind immediately goes to stable
 coins. And when they're stable coins, somebody's going to capture the interest. And I think
 there's going to be incredible, incredible, tradified demand for stable coin trading.
 Liz, is that something you guys are thinking about? I mean, yeah, just like trade up did
 173 trillion dollars in Q three in volume. Like, is that a merit massive area of focus?
 It's massive. It's mentioned. So, I mean, digital assets writ large are a huge area of
 strategic focus for us. And stable coins are a huge part of that. I will say, you know,
 we're still kind of like, formulating our roadmap in this space and exactly what that's
 going to look like. But it's a massive, massive opportunity area for us. And something that
 I think like Chris, you said is exactly right. Traditional financial institutions are going
 to want to transact in these products. And they're going to want to have access to sort
 of the best and most robust liquidity pools and and and widest network of liquidity providers
 that they can that they can get access to. And that's certainly our sweet spot. So, it
 makes all the sense in the world to us. The thing I'll note about this subject guys is
 that it was done on Ethereum. And we've talked about how Ethereum is very appealing to Wall
 Street because of its 10 years of history. I just wanted to flag that. And I would love
 to get our guests opinion on that as well. Yeah, look, I mean, I think Chris, you know
 this, but we can we can talk about this for for the wider audience too. The, you know,
 the on train on chain transactions that I was just just referencing that that we've done
 on trade web have all been on the canton network. So so far our activities are on chain activities
 have have only been on canton now. We definitely will ultimately, you know, have support for
 other chains. And again, that will be sort of dictated as and when client demand kind
 of pushes us in in those directions. But, you know, to answer your question more directly,
 do I have an opinion on on ETH and why do people Morgan chose ETH? I think, I think,
 you know, the way that you characterize it makes a lot of sense. It's obviously a very
 well known and sort of well proven DLT kind of technology that people are aware of. It's
 a free household name at this point. Canton certainly less so. And so, you know, I think
 that's it's going to be interesting to see how this all evolves. You know, Solana, ETH,
 Canton, there's probably room, you know, there is for sure room for multiple winners. But
 it's early innings. The fact that you brought canton, I think it's really interesting chain
 that we should explore more, maybe an hour later, but they're going after a permissioned
 use case with institutions, including some of the largest investment banks in the world
 and custodians like BMI melon. And Ethereum, I agree with Chris's point, it is no way like
 traffic chain. It is traffic chain. It's a design for that. It's got the Lindy effect.
 It's got the history. But now Canton network is going after that same use case from the
 largest players in the land. So it's yet more intensification of competition.
 All right. Well, I have a few things to say on this topic, but so we don't get ourselves
 in trouble. I am technically supposed to say we need to do the second set of ads. So we
 can go ahead and run those first. And then we'll come back and debate more who's going
 to win among chains.
 Mantle has entered a new phase as the distribution layer connecting tradfi and on chain liquidity.
 To accelerate this vision, the Mantle Global Hackathon 2025 is inviting developers to
 build scalable RWA and DeFi products. Why build on Mantle? It's an ecosystem built
 for builders. You get direct access to buy that's 7 million plus users for potential
 listing exposure, support from the $4 billion Mantle treasury, and mentorship from top VCs
 like Spartan and Animoca brands. With six tracks, prioritizing RWA's and RealFi, and
 a $150,000 prize pool plus grants, this is your chance to deploy on a high performance
 modular L2. Register now. The link is in the show notes.
 All right, let's do this. So I want to start as somebody who's been involved in both public
 and private chain activities and say, one, I'm strongly of the opinion that there will
 be multiple winners. As you look at transaction preferences across markets, these things are
 not monolithic or even close to it. If you're looking at like real-time gross settlement
 for retail payments or something like sending Bitcoin around, you need a vastly different
 security model than you would need for something like say 24/7 interest rate derivatives query.
 And I just don't think it's going to be possible to build the all singing, all dancing chain
 that encompasses all of these use cases. For the same reason that we don't have a single
 ledger currently in tradfy is sometimes these things actually functionally need different
 capabilities and controls around.
 Also, I agree with that. Wouldn't you say, though, that specialization for a given use
 case for a given customer target has the edge and will generally win? Canton is specialized
 on a large time use case where you don't need many players. You can get critical mass quickly
 and make a success. And that strips away an opportunity for Ethereum.
 One, I kind of agree. And the kind of comes with, I think to be a better system, though,
 you need liquidity, which means you need a better conduit in and out than in traditional
 markets. Because like, take something that'll be familiar to retail users right now, which
 is imagine that you've got a Coinbase account, you want to get money to like a Fidelity account,
 which does not take stablecoins. You're going from Coinbase to a bank over to Fidelity,
 which is going to take somewhere between one to like a lot of business days, depending
 on how this thing happens. And the a lot may be like five to 10, like it's longer than
 people think. I think ROM to your point, so long as you have a quick in and out. So this
 is why I'm interested in like the money instrument and like tokenized money market shares or stable
 coins is then you have the ability to move between these specialized venues significantly
 more quickly. And it's not that. So like, I think here's the thing that people don't
 always wrap their head around. It's not that all securities need to be able to move or like
 all derivatives. It's that the money you're using to settle is what needs to be able to
 move pretty quickly to make these things work, right? Like, it's the Simpson's thing of like
 money can be exchanged for goods and services, however. And so if I can get my money from like
 call it derivatives chain to like equities, like just vanilla equities chain like that. Now these
 are fungible essentially, settleable with each other through that conduit that I think matters.
 I think your point, like what is the use matters? But I think the other thing that matters, and this
 is what I wanted to bring up and is my main point of skepticism about caton right now surviving,
 like the test of time, is your ability to essentially build a future coalition matters. And if we look
 at traditional markets, there's been two methods that have worked really, really well. Number one
 is get all of the very big people in a room at once. And everybody looks at everybody and says,
 okay, jump. And that's like the DTC model, right? Like when they started, they got all the major
 players and then you just hit go. The other one, a good example is Visa, which is to say, the mistake
 is when you create a thing that says other people can join, but future people join on worse terms
 than current people over time, what you find is instead they just create a thing to compete against
 you. If you did not have overwhelming critical mass at the start, people take that as a sign,
 not, hey, I'm going to pay off the old guard. It's hey, I'm going to do my own thing. Visa,
 everybody can join as a bank. They're basically on equal terms trade web. By the way, same thing.
 If you start a new investment bank today, you can plug into trade web and train the exact same
 ways like JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley. That matters. I'd be curious what thoughts are
 on Canton. You need tokens to run a validator. How do you get the tokens? What is that model here?
 Yeah, I mean, I can hop in on it and tell you from our experience.
 We're coming at it from the experience of having been a fairly early adopter on the Canton network,
 and so we are a super validator. We run nodes on Canton and certainly have plans to expand
 the number and type of applications that we're running. The Canton network in my experience thus
 far is still certainly actively soliciting greater participation. I think that in all likelihood,
 the terms around joining at this point are pretty attractive still. I don't know what that looks
 like necessarily in the future. Now, what I will say about the Canton network that, again, your
 listenership may be sort of skewed a little bit retail, so maybe this isn't something that is
 totally kind of second nature to them the way that it is probably to the four of us coming from a
 little bit more of a trade fight background, which is this notion that in order for large
 financial institutions to move and transfer risk in significant size, they're going to require some
 level of permissioning, if not privacy, permissioning of who can actually see what's happening. So
 there are many ways to skin that cat, obviously. You can certainly skin that cat on a public
 blockchain, and as everybody is aware, there are ways to do that and ways to add privacy layers,
 etc. Is it interesting that Canton was sort of like purpose built to offer this to large
 institutional players from the beginning and that's sort of like a core tenant of how this network
 works and operates? I think that rings true to some of the large institutional players in the market,
 and I think that that is a pitch and sort of the reality of how it operates.
 Resonates with large institutional players, and so it might not sound so great to kind of like
 blockchain purists, and I think they get that too, but this is maybe trying to solve a slightly
 different problem. I agree. Chris, I believe it was you coined the term Empire Strikes Back
 last week. I think this is another proof point under that theme of the Empire Strikes Back.
 The Canton network, they're focused on permissioned privacy first, let only counterpart you see the
 relevant data, and it's more regulatory friendly. In electionally and philosophically, I'm more
 Ethereum, okay? Probably a lot of us are. Kind of doesn't matter though. Canton doesn't need retail
 adoption, and retail doesn't even aware of it, nor do they care, but it matters for the use cases
 that Ethereum is going to go after. I think what it highlights is Ethereum needs a stronger,
 more focused commercial vision. What target customers are they going after with what value
 proposition? We see that with other chains, right? You just had Solana breakpoint. We should have
 someone come on talk about that. Does the internet capital markets use case there?
 Avax is trying to do this. I think Avax is going to hurt a lot around all of this. Canton is just
 going to dominate Avax here. The bear case for Canton is that this is the next R3, right? R3
 was a consortium of mess and things that got together. The banks do this every five years.
 They got behind R3. They got behind Symphony, which was a response to Bloomberg. Really became
 a negotiation tactic against Bloomberg. Symphony hasn't had traction. R3 hasn't had traction,
 but people are trying. I talked to him from R3 of the day. I'll be there. He's like, yeah,
 no, we're on Adam. You've been on it for 10 years, but maybe this time. The investment banks
 have this other playbook where they like these consortiums to create equity value. Trade Web
 was one of them. Ice was another, IHS partners and market partners. They actually fits into the
 playbook of Visa Mastercard where the consortium gets together and they say, look, if we can make
 a kingmaker, we can build this centralized utility. We all have equity interest in. We'll give it
 revenue by being customers. We can set the standards ourselves. Then we take this public,
 we share the investment banking fees. That's the playbook. They're looking at that when they're
 comparing Ethereum to that is a primary consideration. I do think Canton is a credible bid for the
 stratified chain use case. I think, Rambi, your point, it'll come to a question of how do you
 build that consortium, given the starting point on the thing. I think the technology is not the
 problem for Canton. I think it's the governance of, are you going to have some of the early players
 who are willing to give up some of the gains they would have to get more people in? Because if the
 answer is no, eventually you're going to like JP Morgan, who is dipped like a tiny toe in on
 Chanton, but as Onyx and they'll be like, nah, we're good. We'll use our thing. You end up in this
 mutual cluster. When that happens, you start to see fragmentation instead because there are other
 parts of the market where the banks did not successfully pull this off. They just eventually
 lost the whole thing. Let's not go to blockchain. See, for instance, private credit, name for me,
 any of the banks who are a top two or three player in that space. No, it's not a thing.
 Yeah, the one thing I think about with Canton is it's one of the most important golden rules of
 crypto. Just don't die, right? These guys started in like 2014 for the, I mean, I knew them back in
 the day when Sunil Hirani and Don Wilson founded them and I learned about blockchain and Yuval and
 Eric. I mean, and then they went through their trials and tribulations. They had a big dust up
 with ASX. I didn't end well. And then 10 years later, boom, they launched Canton and like, so like,
 that's the one rule. If you're in crypto, just don't die. Eventually what comes around goes around,
 you'll make it just stick around. Our three is really interesting. Did you see the deal that
 they recently did from? Yeah, I guess we do with Solana, right? Super interesting. Like again,
 let's see what Solana does there. What was the deal? Was there a Solana?
 I think Lily joined the board. Lily, that is the idea of the Solana was money exchanged.
 Who paid who in that one? I don't know the Western Union. So is that it's dance partner season here
 in crypto, right? Yeah, yeah, really interesting stuff. Western Union got 30 million dollars from
 Solana. I want to know, like, who's paying who and all these trends? I should talk about Solana a
 little bit because that's the other chain that that's really trying to find its way. I think
 you're right. Canton is trying to go toe to toe with Ethereum for the institutional bid.
 And then you got Solana. Solana, since it's the beginning, has said we are going to be
 the decentralized NASDAQ and they've stuck to it. They just launched an else-fired answer,
 which is going to ultimately give them a million TPS transactions per second,
 because why? They want to have that high throughput, high volume, and I'd love to get Liz's take to
 see if she thinks that that's viable. But one of their challenges, they had product market filled
 with new coins. Boom. And it really helped prove their tech and showed the throughput. But then
 in the meantime, big bad hyper liquid came in. And really, I don't want to say one because Perps
 is a very flaky market. You go to Lighter, you go to Aster. But Solana hasn't seemed to be,
 they haven't won the derivative space. And really, if you don't win the derivatives
 and you're the decentralized NASDAQ, you've got to solve for it. Now they have the internet capital
 markets, which is really, really interesting in my seat. But that's tough too, because Citadel's
 coming after them. Citadel's not like internet capital markets, guys. And so they're trying,
 they're going to have to find their way there. So it's a really interesting time for that chain.
 Every time they've been, their back's been against the wall, they found a way, like they launched
 bomb and galvanized everyone last cycle, mean point season kicked off, coming off a breakpoint.
 But I guess it was like, when you look at a chain, like a Solana, monolithic, high throughput,
 like designed by traders, for traders, how do you guys at TradeWeb think about it?
 Yeah, I mean, look, I think this is another area where, for us, we're going to ultimately take a
 lot of cues from our clients and our users. And so definitely there are some, and I won't name names,
 but some of the guys kind of more in the high frequency trading community who are all on Solana.
 And we know that and they've made that very, very clear to us. And that's kind of where they're
 going to be. And they're like, you know, kind of meet me there. So, you know, I think for us, it's
 sometimes a matter of trying to figure out, you know, how can we read the tea leaves and optimize
 against like, if we are, you know, an institutional markets provider, where where is the right place
 for us to place some bets for, you know, institutional risk transference on chain? I think Solana is
 absolutely has to be part of that conversation.
 Yeah, it looks like Solana has the retail use case. I think equity issuance on chain and debt
 issuance on chain. Like, how do you do public capital raises without an S1 filing at a lower
 standard of compliance? But you got to make that square with securities laws, which are still not
 compatible with digital assets. If you have a public offering, then you must fit under an
 exemption, like reg S for foreign offers of securities, or if it's us than an S1 or crowdfunding,
 both of which are not really compatible with digital assets. But that is an opportunity for
 Solana to differentiate from Cantum and it plays into their retail base with meme coins and all
 the rest goes back to the specialized venue thing, right? Like in some ways, you know, I was talking
 to some folks who have been at breakpoint. And I think Solana really is trying to find its way
 here. Like people are asking, what's the new thing? And what's interesting is when you get a
 bunch of tech people in a room, the new things they talk about are all like, call it more crypto
 for crypto or very tech related things. And that falls into the story of like what stood out
 on Solana historically has been like deep in type things, meme coins, like very crypto native
 stuff. Nobody is built like hyper liquids, probably the best, but that's very much an alpha version
 of derivatives trading online. And we've criticized them in the past for some of their like liquidation
 problems and things of that sort that are not solved. And like Chris has had some very intelligent
 critiques there. I think Solana, exactly as you said, Rob, right is very much in the retail game.
 And I think if they're going to succeed, it's going to be focusing on that street. Like they're
 making phones. That is not an institutional play, right? As you think of it that way. But on the
 other hand, name me a chain that's done a better job of genuinely attracting retail and users,
 right? Everybody, if they're going to survive, as Chris said, is going to have to find their niche.
 Me, like, let me pose a question to the group though. Do we think the blockchain that will have
 the most financial transactions 30 years from now has even been created yet?
 Great point. Might not be right on the mark. All right. So before we run out of time, one last
 thing that I'll flip to everybody. This is a global background show. We should talk about markets
 for a minute. So let's just say that crypto prices in general have not been great, but specifically
 on Bitcoin. So it managed to tag 86K today. Sailor just announced he bought a billion at 92K each.
 Like that guy needs to stop buying the top constantly and all these weekly regimes.
 And Jeff Park in particular was out there saying Bitcoin's upside is capped by OG holders,
 both continuously selling options and dumping on the market. We've been in a call it slightly
 chopping downward trend with lower than usual volatility. In some ways for Bitcoin, I'll start
 with ROM. What are you making of the market here? Yeah, look, I think you see similarities between
 AI, which is the primary driver of animal spirits and energy and markets and crypto.
 And the common theme is intensification of competition, which is the enemy of profits.
 Okay. So OpenAI has got anthropic front-learning them to an IPO. Google has a better LLM now with
 new releases that they can actually fund their cap X. Whereas OpenAI has got to raise money from
 the public to meet over $100 billion in future committed spend on $13 billion in revenue.
 How do you fund that either through dilution? You charge your customers, but people are getting
 free apps from meta and Google. So that OpenAI is the Cisco of this market. When OpenAI doesn't
 hit their revenue growth numbers, you're going to see a pullback and send me using you're actually
 already seen it now. Marcus earned a price in a discount from the Sam Altman top. They're saying,
 hey, maybe OpenAI can't credibly deliver against their forecast. We haven't seen public audited
 statements on this. So in crypto, we've seen a lot of movement to the equity markets. That's
 where a major part of that. So now you have this crypto investor base in equity markets,
 and they're all looking around and crypto investors focus on momentum.
 So momentum is not in digital assets. Value actually has a momentum now.
 In my newsletter this weekend, the Lumet Alleger, I wrote about a stock with a PE ratio of six times.
 They'd provide cable. It's an ancient company. They have dividends. It's called Comcast Comcast.
 It went up 3% today. They have free cash flow and buybacks. This is the revenge of Warren Buffett.
 We're going to use two revenge arcs. Once the empire strikes back, the others are revenge of
 Warren Buffett. Overall, what you've seen is a movement from high data to the opposite of high
 beta. So if crypto is intangible, no free cash flow, high beta, animal spirits, psychology,
 thematic news, the future, the exact opposite that Comcast Comcast. That's moving. Insurance
 companies are moving. Banks are at all time highs now. I think that trend will continue
 into the new year. Long, stable coins. When's it going to shift, though? I mean,
 one thing we are seeing from a liquid perspective is we're seeing liquidity starting to look like
 crypto and liquidity have had very close correlation. We're coming out of QT now.
 Liquidity seems to be improving, which generally has been a leading indicator of crypto prices.
 What's the impetus that you think changes that trajectory?
 I think what has to happen, people might not like this answer. Don't shoot the messenger.
 You need to see high beta assets get oversold. People have to hate them and want to pute them.
 That's one. The second thing is, you have to see that the value play starts to tap out,
 and that's not happening. It's still gaining traction. People are still rotating into it.
 I'll perform last week. I'll perform the week before. I don't see how that dynamic is going
 to change anytime soon, especially with the backdrop. Again, I've opened AI and the questions
 are going to Oracle deliver on $400 billion in revenue performance obligations at backlog
 when their current revenue is a fraction of that and their execution risks.
 The story hangover is significant. Then you also have the US voter isn't actually really excited
 about AI. They're not. Unfortunately, I am. I'm a believer. They're just not. They're concerned
 about what it means to their jobs. White collar is concerned about it. Blue collar is concerned.
 They shouldn't be. They're also seen earlier around Trump and Trump coin and the political
 power around this. Those categories are just on defense now. I think you just have to wait for
 the bad news to get fully priced in. That recognition moment to happen across markets.
 I don't think that's happened yet. I mean, if you look last week at the only one of the
 previous momentum darlings that had done anything good, it was in the marijuana space because of
 the rumor that it was going to get reclassified to schedule. So I guess I'm by the way.
 Yeah, I agree with Rahm values than the thing that's moving. Like Chris Elizabeth, what do you
 make of that? I want to ask Liz, we've seen that these two technologies, AI and crypto, are
 absolutely intertwined. It's hard to look at one without the other in my mind. Look at things like
 X four, two, which is a payments capability now at the internet. The internet is turning into a
 crypto AI version of itself. But Liz, what are you guys looking at at the intersections of AI and
 crypto space? Yeah, I mean, look, I think on the crypto point, first of all, and this is not
 sort of like necessarily an immediate kind of commentary on where Bitcoin is going. This is a
 much kind of longer term macro comment. But if you are of the opinion, which I am that as and when,
 and I'm still saying when and not if we can we can get all this sort of legislative
 stuff ironed out, we're going to see significant institutional influence with the crypto space in
 the United States that just don't exist right now. And that's going to fundamentally change
 how these markets operate and certainly impact the valuation of the assets themselves, of course.
 So I still believe pretty strongly that that's that's coming.
 The flipping institutions in retail still looking at the ruins from 10 10. Seriously,
 I was calling around this week and I don't think people understand how many people got hurt.
 Market makers just like it is really hurting liquidity and risk. But I think like all things
 it gets prepared, it gets repaired in time. You're seeing new people coming into the market,
 you know, they start with a gateway like an ETF and like wait a second. But to your point,
 where I'm like, I'm sorry, but I think alts are pretty hated right now. Alts have had a rough go
 last year. And so it's hard for me to think that we're not near a bottom. You know, that said,
 we've been talking about a constructive setup for the last three weeks and we've seen what
 the markets have done. So now that you're a little bit bearish, it seems. I'll bet you next week
 we'll be up on Bitcoin week over week. Can I screen share that David Goggins meme of sell those
 are exhausted? See, you know the meme I'm talking about? You see David Goggins in the background?
 It's not an episode of you don't share a screen, man. We got a screen share of this.
 What's the find a way to do that? What? We'll just use that going forward as like the preview for
 the episodes just like Goggins running with Japan is going to raise rates. Is that a nothing burger?
 We got to get a nothing burger in here. I was going to say you're just causing trouble now,
 Chris. All right. I was going to say this is definitely the side that we're at the end of the
 episode when Chris has resorted to trolling Rob about. I will accept that trolling. I will get
 the hat. Nothing. All right. So what one future merchandise, the nothing burger hat, but two,
 as always, thank you everyone for joining us for this episode of Bits of Bips. We'll be back in
 one week to discuss more about how the worlds of crypto and macro are colliding. Until then,
 enjoy your nothing burgers.
