TITLE: How Stablecoins Are Rewiring Global Payments | Borderless CPO Alex Garn
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V19eRsyMtcc
VIDEO_ID: V19eRsyMtcc

TRANSCRIPT:
The Stitch Together, a global network of all of these things, can be time-intensive,
 it can be hard on engineering teams, it can be complicated and just confusing and messy.
 And so Borealis is building this network that integrates all of these different local providers
 into a single network.
 Welcome Alex Garn, CPO at Borderless. Welcome to Defiant, happy to have you here.
 Yeah, well thank you for having me. It's a pleasure to chat with you today.
 Likewise, we've known each other for many years, but I'm really curious about
 your journey to your current position. How do you get there? Why is it exciting to be part
 of Borderless today?
 I think it's kind of like any journey these days. It's a bit haphazard and all over the place,
 but began my career kind of in data science and building kind of machine learning models
 and things like this for clients as a consulting firm and realized that I like the analytics and
 kind of the certainty of numbers and logic, which kind of naturally pulls me into DeFi,
 because DeFi is permissionless. A lot of times things are immutable and you can kind of count on
 code to some degree, right, for executing complex systems that, I don't know, perhaps we have a
 view that we can't always trust traditional banks to do so. And building in DeFi was an amazing
 experience previously, building kind of smarter routing systems, but I think the reality of
 the nature is that these days, you still need to have some compliance around how you're using
 money to pay for things, not to move things, and all of this kind of naturally brought me through
 to Borderless, which is doing cross-border payments with stablecoins. So it's kind of this nice fusion
 of you still have stablecoins, primarily built kind of in DeFi on blockchain rails, permissionlessly
 moving cross borders, but now you have kind of the orchestration layer to help move through
 regulated and licensed entities to interface and kind of exchange with actual fiat that people
 use to pay for coffee, pay their bills, et cetera, things like this, all over the place movement,
 but kind of a nice through line there from DeFi into stablecoins where we think future of payments
 is going to ultimately arrive. And in brief, for people who are not as familiar with Borderless,
 can you describe what it does? Yes, Borderless at a high level is orchestrating on and off-ramps,
 so you have a very fragmented landscape of licensing. So to convert stablecoins of any kind,
 or crypto of any kind, frankly, into fiat currencies, so these are local currencies like
 Brazilian real, US dollars, pesos, et cetera, you need the licensing and you need the service
 provider essentially in that local regulated regime. And so to stitch together a global network of
 all of these things can be time intensive, it can be hard on engineering teams, it can be complicated
 and just confusing and messy. And so Borderless is building this network that integrates all of
 these different local providers into a single network. So if you're a bank, a PSP, a remittance
 platform, or somebody moving money across multiple jurisdictions only have one API to integrate,
 they get you access to this global network that allows you to move money between crypto and
 staples and fiat as well. And to clarify there, like having this network, like using an API,
 it doesn't mean that you're facilitating, let's say wallet to wallet transactions between those
 partners, or is Borderless intermediating that? Meaning like do the stablecoins that are routed,
 go through you at some point over a blockchain, or is it basically partner A in Asia? This is
 the wallet you have to send in partner in Latin America, for example. We are completely out of
 the flow of funds. So it's strictly a communication and technology layer. You know, for example,
 we can talk through kind of a use case. So somebody is let's say a FinTech in US marketplace payouts
 to Latin America, think of like your fibers of the world, the gig economy type stuff is one example,
 they need to take their essentially treasury or balance your bank account, which is US dollars,
 pay out in local currencies, they can send that via stablecoins. And then those local providers
 are doing the on and off ramp. But we're orchestrating that meeting. We'll tell the client, hey,
 send your money to Bitso at this deposit address where it arrives, Bitso then handles that leg
 into fiat conversion. And so we have partners like Bridge, Bitso, Evania, and many, many more,
 I think we're like 15 plus providers on the network these days. Then in your network, you are
 also connecting, let's say, traditional Fentix or payment facilitators, not necessarily just
 connecting the on off ramps at local markets, but also going to the end user, which might be
 like a gusto, a deal that forms like those. Exactly. Okay, you have sort of like two business development
 goals or like building the network of end users and having the most robust liquid network of
 partners who can intermediate those flows. Exactly. So our value is frankly zero. If we have no
 partners on the network who have the liquidity to facilitate this conversion between stable and fiat.
 So that's goal number one is have a network valuable enough that it draws clients to it. And goal
 number two is obviously go convince those clients to come join us and facilitate their
 cross border payments on board list. It's really interesting that you mentioned along the way
 the idea of like a communication network. That sounds a lot how Swift would describe itself,
 like a messaging that for rather than even in the environment flows, but it's not like a
 reimagined for the stablecoin world. I think that's that's very accurate. Obviously,
 there are some key differences between us and Swift, but the high level concept of a communication
 layer is exactly right. And you know, another thing that is quite interesting to think about is,
 yes, we're making the engineering lift much easier because we have a single kind of API to
 integrate you get access to all of this. But we're also helping to streamline and automate some of
 your operations flows. So instead of having your operations, people managing a whole bunch of
 different siloed partners across a whole bunch of different dashboards and APIs, etc. You now have
 that consolidated. Because we have all of this data that we're collecting as well, we can consolidate
 all of that as well. So you can see reconciled like a single source of truth for transactions,
 you're doing cross border. You can see your total aggregate volumes flows, things like this,
 you can see aggregate rates data and things like this. And so that's like at a high level,
 there's more to borderless than just the API integration, but streamlining the entire package.
 Got it. I think a lot of this has been enabled by stablecoins becoming a part of
 payments flows. So originally, stablecoins and even to this day have been mostly being used as
 like trading pairs, trading collateral. And we've seen that rise in the use for payments and real
 world activities. What's your take on the transition from the P2P people sending USDT or USDC to now
 it being intermediated or like the stablecoin standards model? That is one part of the question.
 And the other one would be around could the end user is so I'd assume initially it has been
 mostly people in individuals in different markets, but a lot of businesses are getting into it with
 use cases like the ones that you are describing. So what's your take on that transition and where
 is it heading? Are we seeing Walmart starting to use stablecoin facilitated corridors in their
 operations? I just got back from money 2020 and the running joke is that it was actually stablecoin
 2020 because as you're kind of alluding to, the businesses are here. Borderless's clients
 are primarily B2B and we're seeing this growing rapidly. We're seeing this transition away from
 stablecoins, just uses collateral on chain for DefiDGens to now businesses seriously consider
 how do we use these to move money globally and not only for payments, but for treasury. I think a lot
 of this has been unlocked by things like Genius. Genius is the regulatory framework in the US
 that makes it much, I would say, maybe not much, but at least more clear how businesses can work
 within these frameworks. So it's quite exciting time to be building in stablecoins and I think
 we're only going to see it continue to accelerate over the next couple of years because now that we
 have Genius with some clarity and some framework as to how businesses can operate, it's going to
 take a couple of years continued for those businesses to kind of really get educated,
 really get confident and start to move significant sums of money across stablecoin rails. But what
 we're seeing in terms of adoption currently is quite exciting because it's still very early
 innings for stablecoin payments for enterprises. Even now, we're seeing lots of excitement and
 adoption and beginning to take those steps to move things, which is a huge indication that things
 will continue to come. For example, do you think that the networks or just like the liquidity that's
 out there is deep enough to facilitate, you know, like enterprise or corporate level,
 like treasury management, constellation of auto firms that you guys have? Can I send 10 million
 dollar payment in one go? Where's the threshold right now of like where it works? Yes and no.
 It depends on corridor. So more mature corridors, absolutely. We'll see the liquidity of tether
 on chain is tremendous. People wanting to move kind of money into and out of tether is easy. Circle
 obviously has a huge amount of liquidity for USDC and they're setting up quite a number of
 interesting partnerships with like kind of direct mint and burn capabilities. Lots of market makers
 in the space that are backing stablecoins because they've already come on board to say that we
 agree that USDC and USDT are one to one. These are the exciting things that I would say short
 answer is yes. I feel fairly confident that like tens of millions can move very easily. However,
 there are some emerging markets in corridors where the liquidity infrastructure is less developed
 that that does become a bit more of a concern. It's a great question but really kind of depends
 on corridor. In that context, where is it working? Where are you seeing the most traction and like
 what corridors are? Because ironically, it might be those that are less developed, right? Where,
 you know, like spreads might be higher. Who is using these type of platforms? Where are they?
 Where are they? What kind of companies? I think we're perhaps a little bit biased here in the US.
 So a very popular corridor is US to Latin America because, you know, very close by a lot of ties,
 both business-wise, familiarly, etc. And between US and Latin, those corridors between you think
 you're Argentina's, you're Venezuela's, you're Colombia's, Brazil's, and another major corridor,
 Mexico, of course. And this is where it's really working. And I mean, as you know, from your background,
 in Latin America, there is a fundamental understanding of stablecoins and kind of this interest in US
 dollars that doesn't exist in most other places in the world. In certain countries, if you have
 inflation, you want to hold dollar and kind of stablecoins is a great way to get access to that.
 So we're seeing this has already been adopted in a lot of ways. And then you say, okay, if kind of
 your everyday people want to use stablecoins in Latin America, it's much easier to then convince
 businesses to continue to do. We're seeing, like I said, specifically Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina,
 Colombia are the major corridors currently. But the other thing that I would highlight is like
 Southeast Asia. So this is one that, frankly, we're getting a bit more familiar with because
 we're a bit further away. But we're seeing a lot of kind of remittance type use cases around Vietnam,
 Indonesia, Philippines, places like this that are quite exciting as well. For those use cases in
 Latin America, are those then like fiat to stablecoin, like routes? Or are they fiat to fiat?
 A lot of in Latin America, I would say we're seeing specifically a borderless, a lot of fiat to stable.
 And then that stable people can choose to do what they want with the other leg is stable into fiat.
 If you are, let's say we'll go back to the marketplace type use case and your clients or your users
 want to receive stables, they go from fiat to stable. The other use case is to say, I need to pay my
 rent. I need to pay my coffee. That still requires fiat. So you can get paid out in stables and then
 convert it into fiat. Got it. So it's also then those like fiat to stable might be consumer
 wanting to get access to digital dollars. And then you have like those value added services like
 cards that allow you to spend on your like stablecoin balance, which is things like networks are now
 very into facilitating because regulation allows it or it's more friendly to do that even in,
 you know, like all across Latin America, for example, if that seems to be working, what isn't
 there yet? You see, for example, paper with PYUSD, working hard to get the US consumers to hold
 PYUSD and like, I have dollars, right? I want digital dollar. Maybe I wanted, if you give me a
 4% API, right? Do I want to send money to the UK? Would I want to be facilitated via a stablecoin
 corridor? Good question. The reality is it depends on market, right? So we're seeing more mature
 markets. Like if you're moving money between the US and the EU, perhaps stablecoins aren't quite
 efficient enough yet because of the liquidity providers on both ends taking quite aggressive
 spreads. So then you look at something, especially at scale, right? So Swift is a flat fee. The providers
 for liquidity for stablecoin to fiat are generally taking dips on volume. And so as you scale volume,
 the fees go up. So for real size, I would say between the US and Europe, some of those are perhaps
 less attractive because you can just pay a flat swift fee and it'll arrive. The reality is there's
 lots of interest in emerging markets around stablecoins. And this is where kind of it does continue to
 build relevance. But the other piece of like, perhaps where it doesn't work aside from just
 developed markets around Swift is KYC KYB compliance. So this is a huge headache and something that
 we're actively working to streamline as well. So when you come to borderless and you get access to
 five to 10 different providers, we can streamline that kind of KYB KYC process by creating identity
 objects that then get kind of replicated to each underlying provider so that it's kind of
 streamlined into one experience. The bigger concept though is at the end of the day coming
 from DeFi where there is no KYC, it's frictionless, it's easy. That doesn't exist in payments. And so
 this is a huge headache that we're actively trying to solve. One of the concerns that I have,
 one of course is being like, are we losing the ethos of DeFi? If we're writing like fiat to fiat,
 like liquidity using an API, like where's the on-chain aspect of this and the song. But the other one is
 whether DeFi is catching up. If you talk to your banks in different regions and they look at the
 80-20 rules of where the most payment volume is going, so you have enterprises moving their
 treasure, managing the treasure or international payments, they'll say, okay, yeah, all these
 tales about Swift being so slow and taking days and being so expensive might have been true 10
 years ago, five years ago. But now with Swift, GPI, and now they're even thinking about using
 blockchain for whatever purpose it might be helpful for their earnings call or whatever.
 But the point being is that at the end of the day, the partners in these routes have to access
 liquidity from fiat to the stablecoin pair. And in some markets, that might not be a steep.
 So they might end up having to intermediate fiat with USD in their markets and then sending those
 dollars to the US and accessing circles, window and minting, redeeming USDC there. But if that
 is the case, as it happens in some of the markets that have the most need, then they're basically
 getting quotes from fiat to dollars in their local markets from the banks. So almost by construction,
 that means that they'll get a worse deal than what, you know, a large enterprise might get from
 the trading desk at a bank with whom they have a relationship with banks, say, okay, most of my
 payments settle within like two hours. There's still some that will like lag behind, but that
 might be true also, that you might have problems with stable, sophisticated payments. Are we going
 to win the race in terms of like stablecoins being faster, cheaper, more compliant slash secure?
 And which of those dimensions do you think is where stablecoins will excel?
 So I'm biased, right? I come from a background in DeFi and I absolutely hear you on your concerns
 of kind of centralization and access to these dollars and things of this nature. But I think on
 the whole, it's not just either or, right? I think these two continue to exist in tandem.
 If Swift continues to get more efficient, that's a win for the industry. If other block or non-block
 chain rails continue to get more efficient, that's a win for everybody as well. I think ultimately,
 though, blockchain has demonstrated with stablecoins that you can have instant settlement or near
 instant settlement, depending on block times, you can have access to these dollars to whatever
 underlying peg that you want in the form of stablecoins. You can put them to work in DeFi
 for yields that does not have to be kind of three layers obfuscated via loans at some bank,
 and it can be self-custodial. I think, yes, I hope that traditional financial rails continue to
 improve and continue to become more efficient. But I think stablecoins are already demonstrating
 that they are incredibly efficient and that they are incredibly secure. And more importantly,
 at least from my perspective, they're self-custodial. So you can say, I have my company treasury
 in this Fireblocks account, which is self-custodial, and I can trust that the assets are there.
 We've seen time and time again that banks have gone under and failed, and then those companies
 get debunked and where does the money go? It's an open question mark. And so here you can say,
 I'm a huge multinational corporate entity. I want to move money across borders on stablecoins,
 and not only can I trust that it's going to be instant settlement with very accessible and quick
 fees, but I can have that balance in a self-custodial wallet of sorts, and I trust that it's there.
 So I still think there's a bright future for stablecoins and blockchain, of course. But those
 are some of the things that I would highlight as to where they excel compared to traditional
 improvements. In the line, there's some developments that I think that might be pending,
 because if you're managing your treasury, then you have the issue locally, or even for policies
 around the matter of the treasury. What does it mean, this line that I have in my balance right
 now that says stablecoins? Is this cash? Is this a cash equivalent? Can I use it as collateral
 to facilitate a letter of credit for international trade that feels that also needs to come about?
 But I see back to what you were saying at the beginning that there are these use cases where
 necessarily the end-user even doesn't have to be aware, and if we consult those platform-level
 services, it can make sense. When I'm concerned that, again, I have with this sort of trattify
 payments, there's sort of these hybrids coming through. So you have Visa having their own payments
 network. The massacre has its token network. Trattify also seems to be trying to rebuild
 their network-based businesses on chain. Do you think that this is finally the time where
 something will replace the existing networks in terms of facilitating payments? So that includes
 SWAFE, massacre, and so on. I hope so. Frankly, I think we're still a couple of years away from that.
 So one of the interesting things we're seeing to your point on these major traditional players
 getting into the market is around M&A activity right now. So M&A activity is blowing up in the
 industry right now, and a lot of players, MasterCard included, are talking about large acquisitions.
 It is interesting to think about, are they building their own? Are they going to build via acquisition?
 I think it's natural for all of these players to continue to innovate to protect the position
 they have in the market. I don't know exactly what shape it takes in the long run. I do hope that
 there is a fundamental change in disruption to the market, of course, which is why we're building
 borderless and why we're building in this industry specifically. But whether that's a completely new
 disruptor with their own brand taking over and replacing the incumbents, I don't know. Or if it's
 the incumbents innovating quickly via M&A activity or things of this nature, changing their underlying
 technical stack, that might happen as well. I see both is very viable and both is very exciting
 opportunities. Because at the end of the day, I don't really care if it's whose name brand on
 the technology. I think the primary concern is that, look, we need kind of less people
 intermediating. We need to really lean on modern technology that we've created. And I think blockchain
 and stablecoins are kind of the key piece underpinning all of that. Now to wrap up, what are you most
 excited about in this space for the coming years? For a lot of the time, it was regulation finally
 not being the main stopper. Is there something around adoption, around participation, integration
 with local payments, ecosystems? Where do you see the most exciting development? Perhaps it's not
 the most exciting answer, but also continued regulatory clarity is one thing that comes top
 of mind, because you're right, we had a huge breakthrough with Genius. Now what we're seeing
 across other markets is local regulatory environments in Japan, for example, or Korea are figuring out,
 okay, now we see Genius. What does that mean for us? What do we want in our own ecosystem? See
 all kinds of other countries in local regulatory environments trying to figure out how to model
 against Genius? What do they want to keep? What don't they want to keep? What position do they
 take in the market around stablecoins? I think over the next year, we're going to have massive
 breakthrough and continued regulatory clarity across jurisdictions that aren't just US centric,
 which enables borderless to continue to thrive as a cross-border payments solution.
 The other major thing is to your point on adoption, right? You said, you know, like Walmart perhaps
 coming to market with a huge kind of cross-border stablecoin type play. I think lots of those types
 of deals are starting to be explored and are in the works, and probably much more mature than we
 realize. And for us, that means real tangible volume moving on stablecoin rails in ways that we
 haven't seen before. We've seen kind of trading desks, OTC desks, individual DJs moving large
 stablecoin sums kind of across the internet, but to say, okay, I am a huge corporate multinational.
 I have needs to service lots of different local jurisdictions, and to choose to do that on stablecoin
 rails. I think a couple of those are coming pretty soon, and that's going to be really,
 really exciting for the industry. I have just one more question, a lot of curiosity.
 This has been this explosion around like the number of stablecoins already mentioned like
 Mike and Makers trying to make, you know, one-to-one true part of this is fragments liquidity in some
 ways. Do you have any take on where this stablecoin race is going to learn? It's funny you ask this
 because I just moderated a panel at Money 2020 where I asked all of my panelists this exact
 name question, and I was curious. We had brilliant folks across the industry all kind of saying that,
 oh, you know, there's lots of reasons for there to be lots of stablecoins. Perhaps my
 hot take is that at the end of the day, there are a couple of market dynamics at play,
 one being liquidity which you touched on previously, and then the most important thing for a stablecoin,
 at least currently, is distribution. Distribution and liquidity will continue to be constraining
 factors. So I'm perhaps not sold on the endless fragmentation of stablecoins or the kind of
 repetitive branding of stablecoins. I do think at some point there will be consolidation around
 kind of major stablecoins that have really deep liquidity and really broad distribution.
 However, I do think there's kind of an in-between place that may say the underlying stablecoin
 is exchanged one for one or can be used with others, but it just has kind of a wrapper on it
 such that you can market it for branding purposes and things like this. So at the end of the day,
 that will still need some interrupt solution and some kind of exchange easily from one to the next.
 But anyways, that's my personal take on kind of the chaos that we're seeing right now across
 stablecoin and fragmentation. Matt, I appreciate it. Thank you so much for joining me today,
 and I hope to see you very soon again. Thank you for having me. Yeah, this is fantastic. I look
 forward to it. Awesome. Thank you.
