TITLE: The Future of Money: How Banks Are Quietly Preparing for a Blockchain Future
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_GPp1rlBEU
VIDEO_ID: V_GPp1rlBEU

TRANSCRIPT:
Stephen, are you seeing a lot of these financial institutions put in place their own custody infrastructure?
 Or are you seeing more and more just trying looking at outsourcing it with third party custodians?
 Yeah, so I think over the last year, we've seen a bit of a shift in the way that banks have looked at custodial infrastructure.
 I think when there wasn't as much clarity in regulation, this idea of outsourcing that infrastructure to licensed custodians is really the first play.
 But as we've seen more commercial models really start to evolve around custody, trading, payments with stablecoins.
 I think a real question around integrating infrastructure so that it can holistically develop products that start to occur.
 And so you've seen that shift start to happen within the last year.
 I mean, obviously integrating anything into a bank is always a challenge and there's various verticals.
 I need to be getting involved.
 Practically speaking, though, when you're trying to implement like a technology like fire blocks inside of a bank,
 what is the biggest challenge you're seeing in practice?
 Look, I think there are a few.
 The biggest is this is a new technology, a new model, right?
 And the framework for it is very different.
 So public infrastructure with blockchain is a very different model than a lot of the private and closed-loop infrastructure that banks operate on today.
 And so really thinking through the risk models around that and the right technological infrastructure is key as well as the right people who can operate that infrastructure.
 And so I think those are a lot of critical questions that we have to answer as a technology provider, but I think we're able to do that quite well.
 And obviously post the Trump administration, there's been a complete shift in the US in the approach to digital assets.
 And obviously we're seeing a lot of US banks now wake up and embrace crypto.
 Are you seeing that have a ripple effect on the banks in the Middle East, in Europe, in Asia?
 What are you seeing with the banks outside of the US when it comes to looking at such infrastructure?
 Look, I think obviously people look at the banks in the US, but I think what people are really looking at is the level of fintechs and payments companies that are coming into digital assets
 and are developing products for SMBs and for corporates and for retail alike.
 And I think when you look at places like Latin America, the Middle East, Southeast Asia, where you have a lot of corporate cross-border payments that could be impacted and disrupted by stablecoins.
 You have a lot of remittance businesses that banks operate today for retail that can be disrupted.
 And then you have a lot of crypto exchanges that are directly advertising themselves to retail.
 Those are opportunities from a revenue perspective that banks can't overlook.
 And so I think banks in these jurisdictions, as regulation is becoming more clear, they're thinking about what kind of business models they can enter into.
 Because I can imagine, especially when you mentioned stablecoins, and as these payments and these fintechs are trying to deal with stablecoins and for cross-border payments and others,
 it kind of challenges the whole model of swift and corresponded banking and the old-school legacy system banking that we have in place.
 How do you think that play out in practice?
 Yeah, so I think stablecoins represent the first real commercial use case around digital assets.
 It's the first time you've been able to move money at a cross-border basis without a bank.
 And that's seriously disruptive, right?
 And so I think banks have started to think to themselves, where do we play in this space?
 Generally, we were thinking about things from CBDCs through tokenized deposits, and now you have stablecoins.
 And how do we operate across all of these three different paradigms?
 And how do we maintain ourselves as the hub for both corporates and retail consumers to be able to use to have a good experience,
 to have safety, security, trustworthiness, et cetera, but to then leverage this new technology?
 And so I think that's the critical questions that they're trying to think through and develop strategies around.
 I can imagine how this is not easy from that perspective.
 Obviously, there's a number of developments now in the US, market infrastructure, genius, and the list goes on and on.
 How do you see the US banking landscape in the next couple of years when it comes to crypto?
 Do you think it will just be there?
 Every bank will have a crypto infrastructure for clients?
 I think every bank will leverage blockchain, right?
 Whether that's around things like tokenized securities, which I think if you look at FMIs, they're developing,
 you can look at what Robin Hood's done around tokenized securities and equities in Europe.
 I think people will think about them in terms of payments and corporate payments.
 And then I think obviously we're seeing a bigger push towards crypto brokerage, right?
 So the likes of, you know, Schwab and others, Etray, that have announced they're going into this area of business
 to be able to offer, you know, crypto directly to consumers.
 And so I think in some model, every bank probably over the next two to three years will be looking at one of these three areas,
 whether it's brokerage, whether it's payments, whether it's baseline custody, as a business opportunity that they engage in.
 But do you believe, I can see with the big large banks, they'll be able to adapt.
 And the FinTechs, the Robin Hoods of this world, they will be able to adapt.
 But obviously there's thousands of small regional banks in the US, for example.
 And other parts of the world are including Europe.
 Do you believe these small institutions will be able to make the jump to this blockchain infrastructure ecosystem
 to handle not only stables and crypto, but also tokenized asset, as you mentioned?
 Look, I think what we try to provide a firebox is a technology capability that simplifies getting into the space.
 And I do still think there will be hubs, right?
 Whether that is larger banks or FMIs that offer services to these banks so that they're able to scale more quickly.
 But I do think it's important that every bank, as they think about what the future looks like,
 has infrastructure that enables them to access the blockchain, the information that exists on the blockchain,
 and the assets that exist on the blockchain as well.
 And that becomes a competitive advantage, actually a must in that case.
 Well, that's a question as well, Stephen.
 You work with banks around the world as they're looking at custody infrastructure, or let's say technology infrastructure.
 Any region or type of banks or financial institutions that you found particularly impressive,
 that you think are ahead of the curve compared to the rest of the market?
 Look, I think the banks in Latin America are quite aggressive in their approach, right?
 I mean, I think there is a lot of cross-border remittance type business and a lot of corporate innovation that's happening in Lattam.
 Look at Bank of Columbia, look at BTG, Patuel, they're all building really interesting infrastructure
 that leverages the blockchain, but is really commercially focused, right, in terms of adding value.
 So I think that's really a reason to watch.
 And one quickly is a question in 20 seconds, the biggest risk, if you look at this,
 as the banks are embracing these kind of infrastructure, what is the risk that worries you?
 Yeah, look, I think it's that they're not open, right?
 That they build legacy infrastructure that's very closed, very private or permissioned,
 and doesn't really encapsulate the value of blockchain and open ecosystems.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
