TITLE: How Stablecoins Won: Bridge Co-Founder & USDC Co-Creator Share the Story Behind Crypto's Killer App
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2y4i6yqcorI
VIDEO_ID: 2y4i6yqcorI

TRANSCRIPT:
I like very legitimately thought that our business was unacquireable.
 Stripe just like pours jet fuel on the business and accelerates us at a pace that would be
 completely impossible independently.
 I think it will be taught differently in schools, you know, people go through universities
 because I think they're learning a lot of skills that are irrelevant.
 What would you recommend they study instead then?
 Dropout and build a business.
 Probably a lot of people here have interacted with a product that
 you created, Sean.
 You designed USDC years ago back when it was far from obvious that it would be a good idea.
 It was a zero interest rate environment.
 There was no business model for it.
 What gave you the conviction to think that USDC could work?
 It probably should have been obvious sooner than 2017, which was when I wrote the first
 white paper and began writing the code.
 We started circle in 2013, so probably should have been more obvious at that point.
 At that point, we had firm conviction over on this concept of democratizing access
 to finance globally on internet rails, but we started with Bitcoin and then sort of realized
 that what we really need is a representation of government fiat money that could be trusted
 or run at internet speed, and that led us to put the dollar first on Ethereum rails,
 but the concept was always many, many chains, many issuers, and to open up this new world
 of money running at internet speed, and so that was rooted in the origins of the company,
 but for USDC specifically, it was just a mission to make that reality.
 Why now?
 Why are stablecoins having their moment?
 Now, when you worked on this years ago, you had the idea for it, and now it's really taking off.
 What's changed?
 Well, it was a really hard problem to start with because it wasn't really fundamentally
 a technical hard problem. The infrastructure was not quite mature enough to have, say,
 dollars or other currencies, but mostly when we talk about stablecoins today, we're talking about
 dollars in volume. The infrastructure wasn't quite there, but still the key problem was not
 the technical one. It was more related to the regulatory hurdles. They needed to be cleared,
 the kind of partners and distribution that needed to be amassed around it, and those sorts of
 elements. We didn't shy away from a hard problem, and we knew that this needed to ultimately be
 encoded in law, but that takes some time. We devoted a lot of time to just going in and educating
 regulators and explaining how this could work. There were elements on the economic side,
 elements of the Chicago plan, which is this notion that money creation should be separate
 from lending markets, and stablecoins effectively put that into play. We've had these conversations,
 but it was always going to be a long-term playbook to run. At the time, the interest rates were very,
 very low, and so conversations with people like Bology, for instance, who helped us at Coinbase,
 really imagine this as something that might take 10 years to really result in something that
 might be a credible business model. Thankfully, it was faster than that. That's a little bit of
 the picture. I was at Coinbase when we were working with you on USDC, and it was a science
 experiment. No one knew what the business was or how it was going to be used. It's hard to even
 put ourselves back in that point, but there was DeFi really wasn't that much of a thing. People
 were buying crypto kitties. Maybe that had come along, maybe not even at that moment in time.
 It was like the entirety of the ecosystem was so nascent, and much of the ecosystem evolved
 around stablecoins over the subsequent six, seven years. It was a pretty counter trend to be doing
 this so early. I would say even in circle, there was some support for it, but there was not a lot
 of support for developing USDC at the time. We were doing many things.
 Jare supported it. Jare supports everything, my co-founder. But yeah, it was a tiny team with
 not a lot of resources, which played to our benefit, I think, and being able to execute.
 Yeah, when I first met you and was covering crypto for Fortune magazine, I did for years,
 you guys were working on a Bitcoin-powered Venmo competitor. It got some traction in Europe.
 So we had many things. We had this conviction around what the world of global finance might
 look like on internet rails, but we were very flexible in how it might actually be achieved,
 particularly in the near term, when we were struggling to get say, we were pursuing money
 transmission licenses in the United States, so getting States even to understand what this was,
 and while we might need to be licensed at the same time that we had several product experiments
 that we were working with. So we did start with Bitcoin, and then obviously moved to Ethereum,
 which is where we launched USDC, and many others, fairly agnostic about what the underlying rails
 needed to be with some specific characteristics that are helpful, obviously.
 But it was always a little bit of the layer on top, the programmable money layer operating
 across multiple chains, so it was of most interest. I have to share one story. I came to your offices
 in 2017, and I arrived on a day when the market's just completely tanked.
 It would have to be more specific. It was a bloodbath, which in retrospect looks extremely tiny.
 Like Bitcoin was trading at 20,000. It probably went down to like 6,000 over the course of a month,
 and I expected you guys to cancel the visit, and you know, because it was just going to be like a
 shit show or something, and I showed up, and you guys were cool as cucumbers. Like there was no
 frenzy going on in the office, and you were like, well, you know, we've got this OTC trading desk,
 so you know, as long as the price is moving, we're making money hand over fist.
 It's also, you know, by that 2017, this four or five years in, you know, there's many little
 mini-crisis along the way. I mean, I remember when we struggled to get a banking partner at
 one bank that would bank us, and I was doing a panel for Silicon Valley Bank, which was the one
 bank that would bank us in the world, the night that the news broke about Mount Gox, and we had
 bankers walking out of the room safely. And so there's lots of little mini incidents like that,
 but you know, you have conviction about something, stay resilient, and managed to stay alive long
 enough to be successful with it. I want to talk about those hard times, but first, I have to ask
 you, Zach, also, you had your own journey through the IDMA's. You started the company bridge relating
 to NFTs, and you since had pivoted to stablecoins. Tell me about that journey.
 Yeah, I mean, it was it was shorter than then circles journey. I mean, it's kind of this the
 circle story isn't amazing. I mean, it, you know, it was four or five years of kind of like exploration
 to sort of find what ended up becoming, you know, the business that then like carried it, carried
 it forward. For us, the journey was about a year. I mean, we started in 2022 when NFTs were taking
 off and we wanted to enable people to buy, buy NFTs with their bank account. And we were like
 taking money on the bank account and converting into stablecoins and then enabling people to acquire
 NFTs. And, you know, it turned out that was not not the best idea. But in the course of building
 that business, we realized how hard it was to actually build with stablecoins. And it took us
 some time and then, you know, between that moment and, and, you know, over the course of the summer,
 we built a lot of conviction that stablecoins could be this like core payment infrastructure
 and somebody needed to de-complexify, you know, the process of connecting, you know, a bank account
 or the fiat infrastructure to this emergent stablecoin infrastructure. But even from then,
 it was like this meandering path of, you know, fear that we like, you know, we're either too early
 or heading down the wrong path or even as we acquire our customers, I think it, you know,
 maybe two years in, three years in, we were still questioning whether we had product market fit.
 I don't know when like, I'm curious like when Circle felt like, you know, stablecoins had
 product market fit because like, you know, there was a lot of usage but there was no business.
 So that's probably not product market fit. Now you probably feel that way now that the company
 has gone public. Yeah, I mean, I've kind of, somewhat provocative view on this is, I think,
 to date, and in some ways we could still say it's early days, but to date, I would assert that the
 only thing that has found meaningful PM fit in crypto is stablecoins because I don't consider assets
 or exchanges products. So I know people disagree with that. But it was definitely not the case
 immediately. It did take some time. And so, you know, there's so, you know, the largest stablecoin
 in the world has a real liquidity mode on central exchanges for in crypto capital markets and USDC's
 liquidity mode developed through Define. And so that wasn't early on. It sort of happened. I'd say
 really started to accelerate in 2020. And then, you know, grew from there. And I think the biggest
 mode now that the regulatory hurdle was somewhat, it's still a hurdle, but it's defined how to actually
 clear the hurdle. I think the big hurdles that remain for stablecoin adoption are the liquidity
 mode. And then there's an interoperability question as well. And so it's very difficult to imagine
 right now and with some things, significant changes. Another dollar stablecoin clearing that
 moat in crypto capital markets with the way things currently sit. So minority take maybe, but that's my
 view. I think that, like, I think there will be many, many, many different stablecoins.
 I don't know how many will break that moat, but I don't think a lot of them will need to.
 Yeah, I agree. I think they'll be. I think we'll see, you know, anywhere that you can account for
 something on a ledger. I mean, your number in your Oracle database is a traditional, you know,
 finance company. Why not? Why not tokenize that? And so I think we'll see thousands of different
 variations of tokenized deposits and stables. But I do think there will probably be a handful that
 matter. And those will be the ones that clear the liquidity mode and really outside crypto capital
 markets and payment use cases and, you know, all the things that we've been talking about for years,
 but we still haven't really become dominant use cases for stables. But we're this close now.
 I've said that for like seven years. We're close. But now it's really true.
 So I feel like yes, we are. We are really close, but like we're still so like it's hard to even
 begin to express how early we are still. Like I think now like looking at this moment of like,
 okay, there's a public company or, you know, what have you it feels like maybe there's we're at
 like the beginning of some like, you know, linear or like consistent growth instead of like the
 chaoticness that you that has happened over the last like several years. But, you know, like the
 regulatory requirements have still not been defined. You know, stablecoins are still used in a tiny
 sliver of all global payments, like, you know, a couple basis points of global payments.
 Stablecoins have captured like a de minimis amount of the overall depository deposits in the U.S. We
 don't have any stablecoins that exist really in any material way outside U.S. dollar stablecoins.
 Like most banks and core financial institutions don't touch it in any in any capacity.
 So we're we're still, you know, in blockchains themselves haven't even been, you know, optimized
 to, you know, facilitate payments at the scale that together we need. It's just so many that we're
 like so incredibly early. Yeah, I agree. So Sean, you mentioned that you expect there to be multiple
 stablecoins out there. I mean, Tether and Circle have had the first mover advantage and they account
 for almost the entirety of the market to date. What do you expect to happen to that status quo?
 Will it hold? Well, I don't have any, you know, as you would imagine, I have zero special insight
 into other, you know, there are people strategies behind closed doors. But I do think when we're
 talking about stablecoin usage today, or we see the transaction volume increase and it's still
 largely in crypto capital markets use cases today. We are seeing legitimate cross-border payment
 use cases, sort of remittance-style use cases, import/export, payouts to humans who want to hold
 dollars on their phones and stables for the best way to do that. And so we are seeing as you see
 as a bit not yet at volume. And so most mostly when we sort of orient toward the state of
 affairs today, it's still consistently toward crypto capital markets. But the more interesting
 thing is once we get out of just that one use case and we start to crack these other
 use cases, there are new players who have different kinds of distribution channels and
 different kinds of capabilities, you know, bridging partnerships and the like, that I think we'll,
 you know, we'll see new kinds of stablecoins, existing stables as well, but we'll see new kinds
 of stablecoins crack new markets in ways that will be quite different and powerful. So that,
 I'm optimistic about everyone has a slightly different take on it. I mean, I think some people
 who are focused on stable is probably a little more on the underlying assets and reinvestment
 of those. Others are very product focused. Some have stumbled into stables. And those are the
 people I kind of like the most to talk to. There's the ones who hate the word stablecoin,
 like why do we call it that dollar? Yeah, dollar is, you know, it's like a streaming dollar or
 something. That's a worst thing for sure. Yeah, I don't mean, I don't know if we keep calling
 these things stablecoins on, you know, on ours with this new venture, we mostly didn't interact
 in with, with AI engineers and AI companies. And for the longest time, we avoided the word
 because it got such a toxic reaction. And by the way, I think a circle was maybe the most boring
 company in crypto in a good way, you know, very like, you know, by the book, go through the front
 door. But we were sort of, you know, the word stablecoin was lumped into crypto and AI engineer
 communities, for some reason, my impression is that even more so than other developer communities
 have a really strong adverse reaction to crypto. It's changed over the summer and now stablecoins
 in particular have achieved some escape velocity relative to their impression of the rest of crypto.
 But it's been, you know, it's been interesting. So anyway, it's a little tangent on the word.
 I don't know if we keep calling it that, but it seems to be the brand now. So I think it's done.
 But you can keep fighting the fight. Don't call it a stablecoin, just call it a dollar.
 Zach, okay. So I'd like to return to the point about product market fit. We've got an audience
 of founders here who are probably very interested to know how you grinded your way there and when
 you knew that you had finally achieved it. Yeah, I would say that I guess the advice that I got
 or the way that people kind of talked about their products was that there, you know, when you're
 like, you would listen to someone on a podcast or you would talk to an investor or something,
 there's kind of like people talk about this moment of like your pre-product market fit and then
 your post-product market fit. And that makes it sound like, you know, you're in the desert and then
 you're, you know, in some sort of utopia or, you know, you're sort of meandering down some like
 terrible road and then there's this giant cliff that you overcome and then you're on this whole new,
 whole new like plane. And I was definitely not the situation that we experienced. Like we
 came up with this, came up sort of with the current, you know, the men of like the first version of
 bridge and then we, you know, built our APIs and we launched our APIs and that didn't feel like
 product market fit. And then we got one customer and they were using us and but we had no idea
 how big they were going to get. So that didn't feel like product market fit. And then we got like
 five customers and, you know, each month we had this like steady and bound of customers that
 were coming to us. But there were all these like teams across Lat Ham in Africa and like,
 who knows how big those customers are going to get. So that didn't feel like product market fit.
 And then we got to like a million dollars of revenue. And, but I looked at our customer base
 and I was like, this is a wild collection of like really odd balls. And so I have no idea
 if I could build a business around this. So that didn't feel like product market fit. And then we
 raised our series A and that just created more fear that we didn't have our product market fit.
 And then I actually I went to like a founder event kind of like this and I was listening to
 the CEO of I think was like MongoDB or something talk about how they had gone public and they had
 about a hundred million dollars of revenue. But Amazon had just launched this product and the whole
 market knew that Amazon was going to cannibalize their entire business. But then they were looking
 at their business and they were like, oh, we have this little thing that's like a million
 dollars of revenue today. That's going to be really big. And they went public and they ate
 glass. And then over the next couple years, their core business basically went to went
 almost to nothing. And this little thing became like a billion dollar business. And it made me
 realize that as like a founder, you know, a company at that scale that was going public was still
 iterating through the same stuff that, you know, obviously at a different scale that we were iterating
 through. And it made me realize that like the correct mental model of building a company is more
 like you're kind of just on a stairmaster. And you know, there's always the next hurdle. It's not
 like one unified thing where you achieve product market fit and everything changes. It's just
 a steady you get to one million and how do you get to five and then you get you get to a million
 users and how do you get to five million users. And it's just the next milestone and each one is
 harder to overcome than the next one. But you're just perpetually on this on this like journey of
 trying to overcome what the next obstacle is with each one feeling like it was harder than the one
 proceeding and each one feeling like it's more existential than the one that the one that proceeded
 and weirdly that can sound like masochistic. But it but it helped me because then it made me
 realize that like the insecurity that I was feeling around whether or not we had product
 market fit was like because I was like hoping that I would feel a certain sort of way when we
 achieved product market fit and not feeling it made me feel fear that that wasn't the case. And
 this made me realize no the journey is just going to be this steady thing. And even today
 as part of Thrive I still feel like we're on that journey. Like I still feel like oh we achieved
 you know X you know this amount of volume but how are we going to get there and oh if we want to be
 like really important infrastructure we need to go work with all these these types of companies
 but we have no product market fit in that segment and and so on. So that's been that's been my
 experience of it just a perpetual motion machine of you know fear and obstacles and overcoming them.
 So there's no there's no easy path out it's just uphill the whole time.
 No I mean maybe I mean I think I think it's one of these things where you like you can look back
 at companies that this is the other thing from my perspective is I had joined a lot of companies
 that ended up being successful like I was at Square pretty early and Coinbase pretty early
 and Brex pretty early and when I joined all those companies I felt like they were inevitable that
 the companies were going to inevitably be be successful but and so that made me feel like
 there would be some point in time where I would feel like bridge is inevitable and now I'm sure
 that as a if a new employee joins bridge they feel like bridge is inevitable but I still don't feel
 that way and it's like the difference between being like an employee and being a founder is
 like an employee you can kind of live in like optimistic world and like do your job as like a
 founder you're like thinking about what is the next existential thing that you have to overcome to
 make the business whatever it is that you think it needs to be. How did you know that this was the
 right time or how did you decide you know to step off of this step uh stairmaster and to move on to
 Stripe's stairmaster. How did you decide to make that choice that you wanted to get acquired? Well
 I mean I would first off I would say we're like we didn't want to be want want to get acquired I
 don't think the general is being I don't think the companies like sell I think that they get bought
 at least good ones and in this case we I I like very legitimately thought that our business was
 unacquireable like I I just found it very hard to believe that we had such optimism about stable
 coins and where this space could go and it and it felt inconceivable that there was somebody else
 out there that uh shared that optimism uh and was large enough to invest behind that shared belief
 and had the tolerance to invest on the frontier of this this next you know big infrastructure
 improvement and I just didn't think that there was anybody anybody there even even Stripe and so
 when I started spending time with John and Patrick I was my my whole intent was to try to get Stripe
 as a customer and like I tried many times to get them to sign a contract and buy our product and
 they kept deferring and then and as I spent more time with them it just became really clear that
 they shared this very similar view of how big and how important this space could become and it
 also became very clear to me that doing this together made it much more likely that we would
 achieve a much you know bigger combined outcome and do so a lot faster and and this is like been
 true multiple even more so than I anticipated post acquisition I mean the acquisition itself
 sort of kicked off and and like actually very much shifted the space along the adoption curve
 and then with a bunch of the the work that we've done the products that we've shipped it sort of
 shown the world what's possible we just launched this open issuance platform that that we could
 have done as an independent company but the the types of businesses that would work with us would
 be very different if we were like bridge as a series B startup versus bridge as part of Stripe
 so the the thesis that it would move us you know along the adoption curve and and get our business
 farther much faster has like very much proven out how has your life changed post acquisition and
 also you know for bridge itself the sort of working style the company culture
 joining a bigger organization like Stripe yeah they force you to drink a cheeky pint
 they did they did yeah they did a it was sort of like hazing uh the um I would drink down to the
 g we didn't do that because I think all of us would have been horrible at it but uh I would say
 that the um the two two things so one is that uh I actually think it's like day to day it's harder
 to build bridge as being part of Stripe than it is as being an independent business
 uh like zooming into the micro day to day because you have like we're we're pretty independent like
 we have our own office and our own slack and if someone at at Stripe wants to message me
 on slack they literally have to like figure out a connection and then get them to introduce us
 it's it's it's like anyone here messaging us on on on slack and we have our own like Google Docs
 thing and so it's hard to add people in Stripe you know to our docs and vice versa and you know
 things are over time those will those will change but we operate very independently but we have all
 the things we need to do to scale our business like you know we have to go find bank partners and
 we have to build a bunch of like crypto infrastructure and build out wallet infrastructure and uh we
 have our own roadmap and customers that we need to support we have all those things but then we
 also have all these like other things we need to do like we need to somehow figure out how our
 CRM integrates with Stripe CRM so that customers that reach out to us can like we know who's on
 first base and who can work with them and it's like it's like this whole series of of
 additional work that uh complexifies the day uh so so day to day it's probably harder but
 but like big picture there are these moments where things that we would be doing like Stripe just like
 pours jet fuel in the business and accelerates us at a pace that would be completely impossible
 independently and that was like our card's product when we launch it and that's like you know enterprise
 adoption that's coming now or banks that we're now working with or the issuance platform that
 we're working with and so on so uh day to day it's like it's it's just as stressful
 I don't know what people I thought it would certainly like you know you kind of like relax or
 something and that is definitely not been the case okay still on the Stairmaster yeah um Sean so
 you founded Circle uh more than a decade ago and you're now starting a new company in the AI age
 how has your approach to company building changed between you know what you did then
 and what you're doing now with Katana yeah so uh a lot so I'll say first what's not changed uh it's
 actually been informative uh you know in founding Circle so Circle was the third company that
 Jeremy and I did together and and previously it's you know companies were not in any heavily
 regulated industry of any kind like finance or otherwise um and uh and so we knew that going
 in we kind of knew what we didn't know um and so made a heavy investment in educating regulators
 early on at the state and federal level but also internationally and there is a similar pattern
 there when it comes to um optimizing AI workflows that touch money globally and uh thinking through
 standards that may ultimately become written into law for AI safety and how we think about
 the you know the nation state issues that have already emerged around sort of foundational
 element uh you know sort of management and so there was some pattern recognition there that is
 similar I say I would say though what is really different is the tactical formation of a company
 now is very different than it was 12 years ago or even five years ago um and an example is uh you
 know at Circle we have I don't know um a lot of risk analysts and compliance analysts who do amazing
 work um and they sit down at their terminals and they sort of you know um police for for money
 laundering maybe open cases gather evidence file stars and the like so we do the same um but we
 have AI agents execute that entire workflow and we have a human that oversees that workflow um
 and optimizes it so it's a very different kind of role for the human and then they have to be very
 good at working with these AI workflows but the tactical execution uh the you know the economics
 were very different but also the execution the operational sort of management is very different
 because we're incorporating uh sort of AI native approaches to all these things from a pure head
 count level do you think you'll ever need to scale uh up to the size of having slide out in a certain
 way yeah I think the roles themselves will be very different new roles will emerge that I
 probably don't know about uh and so it turns out you really do need to still hire human beings um
 but but the uh you know whether it's software you know software development uh or or marketing
 or um you know compliance as I mentioned um in every single area uh it's it's not you know
 circles what a 1,200 person company cannot imagine um you know the need to build a company at that
 scale uh now it's interesting you say that like the you know like in the early internet people were
 saying like the internet has like changed everything you know everything about the way
 people work and something and it shows up everywhere except in GDP and uh and then like with AI now
 it's kind of like AI is changing like everyone's productivity and so on and showing up in every
 stat except for hiring and you know you certainly feel that in San Francisco like when you're
 we're trying to hire engineers in San Francisco and it's like every engineer you know it's like
 there what has happened to demand for engineering is like you know it's gone hyperbolic yeah yeah
 yeah I mean I do think uh a lot of the you know you can't just go out and vibe code a financial
 institution so yeah let's take some experienced engineers but it is a different way of working
 as an engineer as a principal as an as an architect a very different way of working um then uh and
 I think it will be taught differently in schools and there's a time gap before it's taught differently
 where you worry about you know people who are going through universities and how they're being
 trained because I think they're learning a lot of skills that are relevant in computer science now
 what would you recommend they study instead then drop out and build a business
 humanities poetry go back to uh you know philosophy poli sci english uh now you know that's a really
 good question not to be flipping about it and I think it's a really hard question um and the
 generation that is going through universities now I think are facing you know uh a front and center
 so yeah um so I've got to ask before before we wrap here uh you both are working on new base
 layer chains uh arc in the case of circle and tempo in the case of stripe uh why does the world
 need a new base layer chain or two or two yeah uh ready yeah uh I can I can um I'll go first
 and then curious to hear hear your thoughts so we we've been building uh payments you know
 applications on blockchains for a couple years now it was very clear to us from the from the
 beginning that blockchains were not optimized for this type of activity and it manifest in um
 you know we we in many many small decisions and a few very big decisions like uh we were
 working with a very large neo bank millions and millions of customers they wanted to build on a
 specific blockchain in order to set up wallets for all their customers all their customers they
 need to prime those wallets with a bunch of gas in order to enable them to accept usdc uh the
 the cost of doing that was going to cost this company millions of dollars just to enable their
 customers to have the opportunity to store usdc uh on uh in in these wallets uh we were we were
 one of our very first customers uh a separate use case was the government dispersing aid payments
 and the first time we dispersed those aid payments it was thousands of aid payments which is not a
 lot of payments uh it it took us like 18 hours to send all of these all of these transactions and so
 there's just a bunch of small decisions that um that add up uh to make it very challenging for
 uh core payments use cases to to exist and then there's a few very big decisions like the big
 decisions are like you know uh it's really nice that everything is public on a blockchain but it's
 going to be very hard to get core financial institutions to have all their transactions be
 completely public by default so there's some level of privacy that is that is desirable
 you're going to want discrete payment lanes for transactions so that if something is happening
 in the blockchain like you know what happened last two weeks ago with the with all the liquidations
 that happened you had a huge spike in gas fees across like certain L2s and so on you don't want
 that to happen if you're moving and using these blockchains to to uh run like your core infrastructure
 to move money um so there's a bunch of these things problems that that we saw that we felt like
 needed to needed to be solved and you know we hope that that tempo is like uh independence uh
 independent entity that's sort of building uh building a blockchain to solve this solve this
 problem we hope that that it solves the problem but you know we're also happy if if our solves this
 problem yeah I mean I think just latering off of that I mean it's sort of you add up a lot of
 small things that you sort of look at the existing options when it comes to L1s or L2s um and you
 sort of don't find the right match for something that needs to be you know sub 300 millis um settlement
 like final settlement privacy preserving um not competing with block space for like mean with
 mean coins or whatever you know if I send a wire through old school traditional rails my bank
 doesn't say wait I'm gonna process this tip-tock video first which is kind of the feeling when
 you're just trying to have a high throughput payment chain and you've you know got to deal with
 whatever is you know whatever else is going to so these are where to add all of these things up
 and um some dedicated uh chain that can uh you know have things like gas fees being paid in the
 currency in which you know you're sending so we built first on base in Solana which I think is very
 common um for you know for a lot of people still but our AI actors have to hold uh you know the
 right current the right tokens to pay gas fees and it's just simply more reliable and faster if we
 just don't have to do those things so I think tempo and arc um have to be careful what I say about
 arc um I think that there are slightly different designs and not investment advice um and I think
 there's slightly different takes uh and there may be more takes but it is really important uh in
 order to unlock some of these new use cases to be we avoided this for the longest time obviously
 with USCC because platform neutrality is very important um we built first on Ethereum but we
 immediately started entertaining other chains uh so one of the things that's so great about the
 spaces you have you know a couple years ago there was this desire to create uh blockchains that were
 you know had higher had higher throughput and much lower gas fees and were much more scalable
 and then you saw this like creative process where you had L2's emerge you got Solana merge you got
 app to us you had sweet you had all these different folks come into the space to build to solve this
 problem and then some of those have have emerged and sort of become the winners and and it's great
 that's like the creative creative process and we're seeing the same thing now around
 these payments blockchains where we have tempo and we have arc and there's plasma and there's
 other there are independent other independent entities that are coming out to solve this problem
 and you know one or multiple of those will be successful which will also be great um very very
 very briefly uh you know one of the guiding lights of crypto if it has a core philosophy is
 decentralization what would you say to somebody who is concerned that this could introduce centralization
 into the industry give me like your one sentence that you would say to somebody to persuade them that
 this is uh not something they should be concerned about my take is i don't think any of these any
 of these blockchains will be successful if they're centralized like no one no one is going a bank
 is not going to want to build its payment infrastructure on top of another bank's blockchain and so the
 only way that tempo or i think arc will be uh successful is if they are truly decentralized
 yeah i mean i think like fundamentally um we are saying it is better for us to trust our money
 uh it's a cryptography and software than it is to any one human being or one business that a human
 being creates and so you know the definition of decentralization versus distribution or a road
 map to getting there can all be sort of discussed but it's a fundamental tenant um so some you know
 we can't just have uh you know the corpora chain uh the and expect the rest of the world to use that
 so crypto over corpora all right well zach shawn thank you so much for being with us yeah thanks
