TITLE: The Future of Money: Inside World Liberty Financial: My interview with CEO Zach Witkoff on USD1 and WLFI
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uwe9-E4KETc
VIDEO_ID: uwe9-E4KETc

TRANSCRIPT:
Welcome back, and now we're joined by Zach Wilkoff, the CEO and co-founder of World
 Liberty Financial. Zach, welcome on Crypto Weekly. I want to kick off today really with
 talking about the World Liberty Financial. Now I want to talk about the token as well,
 but in particular, if we start by WLFI, obviously when I look for a benefit of our audience,
 you guys mentioned that you're here to upgrade finance to the next era, obviously with stable
 coins, we're making a capital more accessible, and also bridging the gap between Web2 and Web3.
 For a benefit of our audience, what makes World Liberty Financial different from
 the other crypto teams that are trying to bridge this gap between Web2 and Web3?
 Yeah, first of all, thanks so much for having me. Really good to be with you this morning.
 I think what makes us different is a few things, but first off, we have a very diverse team of
 co-founders that includes myself, Eric Trump, Don Trump Jr., and Barron Trump,
 who come from this what I'll call a traditional trad-fi background, as well as chase hero and Zach
 Folkman, and a bunch of our core team that come from this very native crypto background.
 There's a combined five decades of crypto experience on the team, and a combined five
 decades of trad-fi experience on the team. I think we've all seen a lot of problems in
 both the trad-fi and the crypto space, and our mission at World Liberty is to come up with the
 problems and to then come up with the solutions. The genesis of the business was really started
 after I was having conversations with Don and Eric, and they were telling me that they had been
 de-banked by the two largest banking institutions in the United States, which it was a huge problem
 in this country. We began to think about the solutions, and the solutions revolved around a
 democratized financial system, the nucleus of that being a stablecoin. We're really excited to put
 the hands back in the power of the people. Let me focus on that on stablecoin you mentioned with
 USD1. Obviously, there's a lot of tether as it plays a big role in the market, circle, and you're
 obviously a new entrant, but obviously one that has been growing quite fast. What's the niche market
 or the role you see USD1 play in the broader stablecoin ecosystem?
 Well, I just want to say I don't think that we're going to be a niche player. I think that we're
 going to, we're already challenging the big boys, and I think that we're going to be
 on par with them very, very soon. One of our main focuses is institutions. I think you saw
 that through the MGX finance transaction. We settled the world's largest transaction using
 cryptocurrency, USD2 billion, and just under two seconds with no transaction fee. I think that
 there's a big future for world liberty in the institutional market, and I also think we have a
 big future in the RWA space. When it comes to real world asset tokenization, I don't think
 anyone is in a better place to do it than world liberty. And of course, we'll be using our stablecoin
 as a base pair when thinking about tokenizing the Trump real estate portfolio, or precious metals,
 and etc. And you think the world liberty, like you mentioned, is in a unique position to take
 advantage of the RWA boom. Why in particular? Is it you mentioned the Trump portfolio? Is that
 for that reason, or what makes it unique in the RWA? The Trump portfolio, I think, is low-hanging
 fruit. But I mentioned it earlier on this call. We have a very deep, trad-fi team here.
 Myself, I have a deep background in commodities. That's a particular focus. I focused on commodities
 a lot in the family office world. I just think that we think about the space a little bit differently
 than the other players. Not taking anything away from the other guys. Paolo is actually a very good
 friend. Ted has been quite successful. But the area they've really chosen to go after full
 force is this pure play retail area. They do very well at it. And we're going to go after retail,
 too. I just think that we probably think about it a drop differently at world liberty.
 We are also genius compliant. And so I think that makes us very institutional ready.
 To what extent, and I hear you from an institutional focus perspective, obviously,
 digital asset treasury companies have been a big focus these days and ALTS as well,
 something you guys have been involved in. Is that an angle where you believe a lot of institutional
 investors will want to get exposure to WFI? Or do you still believe there's a different angle you
 want to target these institutional investors? Yeah, I mean, listen, we've seen institutional
 players dive very deep into ALT5. If you take a look at the filings, the investors that invested
 in ALT5, some of them, I believe they've never invested in Dats before. And these are some of
 the largest institutions in the world. I'm talking about Citadel 0.72 Exodus Point in Jane Street.
 So I think that was a really big sign of support for the project. Some of the smartest
 trad fight and crypto firms on the planet, Seoul Ventures being one of them, made very big bets on
 this platform because they see the future. And they believe, just like us, that USD1 is going
 to be the biggest stable coin in the world. To what extent you mentioned, obviously,
 that the fact Eric Trump and members of the Trump family are involved in the project,
 obviously, gives a lot of visibility and credibility to the project. Obviously,
 you mentioned you because it's been very clear on the conflict of interest issues.
 How do you guys dealing with the appearance of conflicts and making sure to address these concerns,
 which would obviously be something that a lot of these institutional investors will have?
 Yeah, so we're very careful to do everything. Not only buy the book, but we go above and beyond
 at World Liberty. We have a very deep compliance team led by our chief compliance officer Brandy
 Reynolds, but we go above and beyond to avoid any doubt in that area. I'll also add that Eric
 and Don don't just lend their names to this project. They are co-founders. They work on this project
 tirelessly, and they've dedicated their lives to it because they see the massive problems that
 are out there. They know that de-banking is at the end of the day. This is like a core issue,
 not only for the United States, but for the world. This technology, World Liberty Financial,
 USD1, it's better than what currently exists in the market today. These guys, Eric, Don,
 Baron, they're dedicating their lives to this project. This isn't something that they're just
 slapping their names on. Well, thank you, Zach. That's all the time we have. I know you spend a
 lot of time in the UAE. Next time I look forward to having you here in our studios at CNBC,
 here at Sami Sarabia in Dubai. Thank you, Zach, with COF, the CO World Liberty Financial.
 Thanks for being with us this morning. Thanks for having me, and I'll add that the UAE,
 I think, is one of the most forward-thinking countries in the world when it comes to crypto
 today. We think World Liberty Financial has a big future there as well. Thanks for having me.
 Thank you, Zach.
