TITLE: Inside BlackRock’s Crypto Strategy: Tokenization, Stablecoins & The Next Trillion
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0_W3OQaTx1Y
VIDEO_ID: 0_W3OQaTx1Y

TRANSCRIPT:
If you think about the big categories of institutional investors,
 you've got family offices, asset managers, sovereign wealth funds,
 university endowments, foundations, corporate treasures, insurers, right, pension funds.
 You have some adopters in every one of those archetypes, but not the majority, not even close.
 Robbie, you run crypto at BlackRock, so I feel like you know more about institutions
 and crypto than just about anyone we've talked to on Bankless.
 So I want to start with a question that's on everyone's mind, particularly on a day like today.
 So we're recording this a day that's a little bit red in the crypto markets.
 Sure is.
 They seem to be coughing up a little bit, so prices.
 Is it over or is this just a bear trap?
 Gosh, well, if we counted the number of times that people have
 declared it over the 16 years, then that would be a pretty high number.
 So no, I certainly don't think it is.
 I mean, they've put it in perspective, right?
 This is the fifth cycle we've seen in Bitcoin and crypto's history, right?
 And through each of those five cycles or at least each of the four preceding cycles,
 you had these extraordinary bull markets, right?
 And at the end of each a pretty severe correction, but through each successive cycle,
 the level that Bitcoin reached was massively higher than the prior cycle, right?
 And collectively across these five cycles, Bitcoin's gone up by six orders of magnitude, right?
 1 million X, 100 million percent since when it first started trading on exchanges in 2010.
 So this is obviously nothing new to crypto.
 I actually think if you'd pulled people on this day a year ago and they said,
 you know, Bitcoin would be at over 100K and crypto market cap would be 3 and 1/2 trillion.
 And most people would have said, wow, that's an amazing outcome.
 So I think there's a tendency to maybe overreact in both directions.
 In fact, more than maybe, there's definitely a tendency to overreact in both directions
 in crypto markets.
 And I think some of the negative sentiment that we're seeing right now is consistent with that trend.
 Well, let's talk about those four previous cycles, maybe now this fifth one.
 So I guess it's not over for crypto.
 I think most bank listeners would wholeheartedly agree.
 I think they're wondering, though, if this cycle is over.
 And so previously, crypto cycles had been boom, bust in these four-year increments.
 Some people talk about that following kind of the global liquidity trajectory.
 Others, you know, that it follows the the havening.
 But we've seen this history play out before.
 And this would be the fourth year of a new cycle.
 So it's about time that Bitcoin would sort of end one cycle, go down correct for some period of time.
 We might have 12 months of a quote-unquote bear market before things correct.
 Do you think that's what's about to play out like right now?
 Do you think it's the end of a cycle or do you think this one is different?
 You know, this one extends into 2026 or maybe the notion of cycles is less relevant
 now that we have so much institutional capital at play.
 Well, I think there's a bunch of reasons why the cycles are probably less relevant
 on that sort of predetermined schedule that it seems to have followed in the past, right?
 The first is a lot of people believe the cycle is tied to Bitcoin having, right?
 Bitcoin having at this point is almost totally irrelevant, right?
 When ETFs are accumulating inflows, the magnitude of those inflows is many,
 many multiples larger than any change in supply created by a Bitcoin having event from here
 until the end of Bitcoin, right?
 Till the end of the Bitcoin reward function in 2140.
 And you also have, I think, as you alluded to, more institutional maturity in this market
 than, and certainly more participation than you had before.
 I mean, I was with a very large institutional investor recently, and they've accumulated a
 decent sized position in Bitcoin, and they said, "We want to buy more, but we want it to go down
 25% first."
 That's a dangerous game.
 One is a dangerous game.
 It's an interesting strategy, but it's also fascinating because when's the last time you heard
 or saw that behavior from most people in crypto markets, right?
 Most people in crypto markets say they tend to get more enthusiastic,
 the more it's gone up, and they tend to sell as things go down, and that creates
 reflexivity in both directions.
 So now that you have this institutional participation, I think you have more ballast in the market.
 Look at October 10, for example, the 21 billion in liquidations that we saw in crypto
 that day, and we could talk more about what's going on there, because I do think it's really
 important to bet.
 What was the impact on ETF outflows?
 Tiny, right?
 A couple hundred million, 21 billion being liquidated over there, and the ETF investor
 base kind of went, "Huh?
 Nothing really to see here.
 There wasn't any relevant news.
 Like, there was just kind of noise."
 And so I think that you will see probably a muting of some of those maybe cyclical effects
 that have happened in the last pieces before anyone starts to declare a cycle over.
 If you look back historically through the previous four, there were some big events
 that actually precipitated those endings, right?
 And we haven't seen anything like that here.
 And the second cycle, it was the Mount Gox implosion.
 In the third cycle, that rally had just gone totally parabolic insane, where Bitcoin was at
 2000 in September or 2017, and it was at 20,000 in December of 2017.
 So that was crazy and obviously unsustainable.
 And then in the fourth cycle, you had just an enormous pileup of really negative events
 fueled by excessive risk-taking, bad ideas, outrageous leverage, etc., that all sort of coincided,
 whether we're talking about Terra Luna, or we're talking about eventually FTX,
 which is kind of the final blow to end that fourth cycle.
 But that hasn't really happened yet.
 Now, what we have seen happen that I think is cause for some concern.
 Obviously, there was a lot of exuberance around digital asset treasuries.
 Some of that may have gotten ahead of itself, right?
 And so that so far, though, seems to be fairly orderly in the way that amplitude has come down
 and you still see a lot of new financings being announced anymore in that category,
 the way you did sort of every single day this summer.
 You also see, I think, a worrying amount of leverage in particularly levered perps.
 And so that really was the story of the October 10th flash crash.
 I mean, there wasn't a whole lot of news worthy of a negative market reaction,
 but you had so much leverage in the system.
 And obviously, you had some collateral pricing dynamics that exacerbated the impact of that.
 But to see how severe that reaction was as a reminder of just how much leverage there is
 on a lot of those platforms.
 And that also, we talked about that in the past, it's really confusing to sort of the
 marginal institutional adopter, the marginal financial advisor adopter.
 When they think of something like Bitcoin as this digital gold diversifier potential hedge,
 it exists outside of any one country's economic, fiscal, political, geopolitical matters, etc.
 And then there's these periods where Bitcoin and crypto trade like they're levered NASDAQ
 on sort of economic and macro news.
 And that's puzzling to people.
 And sometimes people try to slap this risk on, framing on it to sort of reverse rationalize
 what's happened.
 I don't think that makes a lot of sense.
 The drivers of crypto and certainly Bitcoin are very distinct from your traditional equities
 or other traditional portfolio assets. But when you have these levered futures
 where trading does behave that way, and sort of amplifies these sell-offs alongside equities,
 even if they don't make a lot of fundamental sense, that's confusing to the incremental adopter.
 Introducing at Frax USD, the genius-aligned digital dollar from Frax.
 It's a secure, stable, and fully backed by institutional-grade real-world assets,
 cussedied by BlackRock, Superstate, and Fidelity.
 It's always redeemable one-to-one, transparently audited, and built for payments, DeFi, and banking.
 The best of all worlds.
 At the core is Fraxnet, an on-chain FinTech platform built to align with emerging US regulatory
 frameworks where you can mint, redeem, and use Frax USD with just a few clicks.
 Deposit USDC, send a bank wire, or tokenize Treasuries, and receive programmable digital
 dollars straight to your wallet.
 Fraxnet users benefit from the underlying return of US Treasuries and earn just by using
 the system, whether you're bridging, minting, or holding your Frax USD works for you.
 Frax isn't just a protocol, it's a digital nation, powered by the Frax token and governed
 by its global communities. Join that community and help shape Frax Nation's future by going
 to Frax.com/r/bankless. Frax, designed for the future of compliant digital finance.
 Ethereum's Layer 2 universe is exploding with choices, but if you're looking for the best
 place to park and move your tokens, make your next stop, UniChain.
 First, Liquidity. UniChain hosts the most liquid Uniswap V4 deployment on any Layer 2,
 giving you deeper pools for flagship pairs like ETH USDC. More liquidity means better prices,
 less slippage, and smoother swaps, exactly what traders crave. The numbers back it up.
 UniChain leads all Layer 2s in total value-locked for Uniswap V4, and it's not just
 deep, it's fast and fully transparent, purpose-built to be the home base for DeFi and cross-chain
 liquidity. When it comes to costs, UniChain is a no-brainer. Transaction fees come in about
 95% cheaper than Ethereum may net, slashing the price of creating or accessing liquidity.
 Want to stay in the loop on UniChain? Visit unichain.org or follow @Unichain on X for all
 the updates. Bit Digital, ticker BTBT, is a publicly traded ETH Treasury company that combines the
 two biggest meadows of our time. Ethereum and AI Compute. Bit Digital believes that ETH will
 power finance, and AI Compute will power everything. Bit Digital gives you direct exposure to both.
 Bit Digital holds more than 150,000 ETH with institutional grade staking and validator operations.
 On top of that, the company owns roughly 73% of white fiber, an AI infrastructure business
 that runs high-performance GPU data centers that adds a meaningful exposure to the growth of
 AI Compute with over 27 million shares. This is an ETH Treasury backed by real operations designed
 to capture staking yield today while positioning for the future of intelligent computing tomorrow.
 The ticker is BTBT. This ad is not financial advice. Do your own research. Learn more about
 Bit Digital and try their MNAV calculator at bit-digital.com. That's bit-digital.com. Bankless is being
 compensated by Bit Digital for this ad. You can find out more information by clicking the link
 in the show notes. It's confusing, doesn't scare them away. So when you have a $20-30 billion flash
 crash in the month of October as we had encrypted the biggest liquidation event that we've ever seen,
 does that scare institutional investors away from this asset class?
 It certainly does, to some extent. I would say not all sell-offs are created equal.
 What's behind it has a larger effect, necessarily, than what the amplitude of the drawdown is.
 So luckily for Bitcoin and crypto to some extent in that event was that the alleged
 explanation, the alleged trigger, was so de minimis in terms of its plausibility
 as a negative event for crypto that it didn't really draw folks' attention
 all that much other than, wow, that was sort of a big sudden drop, which is different than, say,
 back in April, where you had tariff dynamics and equities, obviously, were down in the short
 term on that. When Bitcoin also was down at the start, you had a lot of questions because people
 said, wait, fundamentally, this is digital gold, this is supposed to be a diversifier and a hedge,
 and why is it reacting to tariff news and sort of economic dynamics? And that didn't make sense
 to people. And it did temporarily give them pause. Now, to Bitcoin's credit, as we've seen in many
 other instances where this sort of behavior happened, by even just a couple weeks later,
 Bitcoin was off to the races because the sort of long-term fundamental buyer base had said,
 you know, the more economic and geopolitical uncertainty there may be, actually, the more
 advantageous that is for Bitcoin as this global scarce, decentralized asset that exists outside
 of all these economic and country-specific systems. Robby, I remember you beating this from
 when you came on. It was just over a year ago, I believe, and you talked about Bitcoin
 is not a risk-on asset. It's really more like an uncorrelated hedge-type asset, more like a
 digital gold. Now, when you see the performance of actual physical gold this year and institutional
 investors see that, which is, you know, they've been calling this a debasement trade. I think gold
 is up on the air about 50% times as high as 60% has certainly outperformed Bitcoin,
 at least from a year-to-date perspective. And so people are looking at that and saying,
 well, if physical gold is overperforming this digital gold, then maybe Bitcoin is not
 a uncorrelated hedge asset. Maybe we needed gold all along. Now, some people in crypto are saying,
 well, wait, just wait for the catch-up trade, right? Bitcoin is going to catch gold price.
 What's your take on this? And what do you tell institutional investors who are asking why gold
 just keeps outperforming Bitcoin on the year? Well, actually, some of this is gold's catch-up
 trade, right? Because Bitcoin actually had a massive rally to end 2024, right, going from,
 you know, high 60s to over 100k, right? And so that actually sort of artificially maybe inflated
 the 2025 starting benchmark a bit. And gold didn't, you know, have that same reaction that it's now
 obviously had a tremendous year since, particularly in the last month or two.
 For a lot of that, the basement trade rally that gold has been enjoying, Bitcoin was right
 alongside it, right? That is a big part of what boy to Bitcoin to that 126k knew all time high.
 It was very closely tied, obviously, to the government shutdown developments and sort of
 continued fears over US fiscal and political dynamics in the long term. And that probably
 would have continued, frankly, if not for the October 10th flash crash, which had nothing to do
 with anything fundamentally for Bitcoin. But it totally derailed the momentum that had happened and
 created this sort of new hangover overall of crypto and certainly undermined and sort of,
 you know, an unhelpful way for Bitcoin changed the channel from the basement trade, which was
 enjoying alongside gold to volatility and, you know, risk on type behavior, justified or otherwise.
 There was an article this week that made the rounds, at least among crypto investors.
 It was an article by an investor analyst, Geordie Bessier, and he was looking at the numbers and,
 you know, trying to explain the reason why Bitcoin has been somewhat stagnant, I guess,
 on the year. And again, year to date, right? I'm talking about. And one of his explanations for
 that was just looking at long-term holders, the original Bitcoin whales. And he had some graphs
 where you can kind of see long-term holders selling in these graphs. He brought up the point that,
 you know, Galaxy Digital, they did a $9 billion trade with some unknown crypto whale.
 And the point, I think the article was entitled the IPO Moment for Bitcoin. He was drawing a
 analog between, you know, public companies going IPO and the early believers, you know,
 the early VCs, the early investors, the early employees kind of selling. You're saying the
 original cypherpunks and libertarians behind Bitcoin, this is kind of their moment to sell as
 their capital as appreciated into the millions and the hundreds of millions and the billions.
 Now we have ETFs and so they're taking opportunity to sell. So it's Bitcoin IPO Moment as, you know,
 one class of investors, maybe the early pioneers, early adopters, shifts to entrepreneurs, or sorry,
 sorry, to institutional capital. And he's saying, that's the reason for some of this stagnation.
 Do you buy that argument? Do you see any of that in the data?
 A little bit, not entirely. I think that to draw parallel to IPOs, I think maybe a little bit of
 a stretch here. I think more of what's going on is 100,000 was a target that I think a lot of
 very early investors maybe had for whatever reason, right? It's a nice
 round number. But people who came in in their cost base was, you know, 100 or $500 and
 100,000 seemed like a nice round number to take some chips off the table. And frankly,
 I don't blame them. And these are people who deserve a lot of credit for having the conviction
 over many years and through many volatile cycles, right, to continue holding and holding. And
 I think it's pragmatic the way I think about it. I certainly don't expect to ever have that
 kind of wealth in my life. But if you think about it, if you have a billion dollars,
 you know, how much better is your life if your billion dollars becomes two billion dollars,
 I think what, like maybe 2% better, like not a lot better, right? So at some point, like you do
 have to take some chips off the table and say, maybe it's not prudent to have 98% of my net worth
 in Bitcoin as much as I believe in it. And so I think that's probably the primary explanation
 of what's going on. I think it's entirely reasonable.
 We are 21 months from the launch of the BlackRock Bitcoin ETFs and all Bitcoin ETFs.
 So I've been in the market for a while, almost two years. I think one of the questions we have
 this cycle, however long the cycle continues or it does not continue, is what's the catalyst?
 Who are the new buyers of crypto assets? One thing we've been waiting for for over a decade
 in crypto is for the institutions to come. Now we're talking to BlackRock. Now we have ETFs
 that have been purchased, I assume, by some of the institutions. So are the institutions
 here yet? How much crypto do they actually own? What's the next net new buyer of the Bitcoin ETFs
 if the institutions are already here? Do you see any catalysts?
 Well, the institutions are here at the very leading edge, right? So if you think about the big
 categories of institutional investors, you've got family offices, asset managers, sovereign wealth
 funds, university endowments, foundations, corporate treasures, insurers, pension funds,
 you have some adopters in every one of those archetypes, but not the majority, not even close.
 Did you also mention sovereign wealth? Do we have sovereign wealth in the category?
 We do. We do have some adopters in sovereign wealth.
 That's right. And so you have early adopters, but they're very much the minority still.
 And I'll tell you what is the critical thing that either unlocks or doesn't their adoption.
 It's all about correlation. And that's why we've talked about this in the past that I was on.
 I talk about this a lot. I'm sure it's very annoying to some people how often I harp on it,
 but it's because it is that important in terms of the way people look at this from an institutional
 allocation perspective. I was with a client recently, a sizable pension fund allocator.
 And the CIO said, literally, that's the one metric I'm looking at.
 Correlation. That's right. Because if it actually is uncorrelated, digital gold-like instrument
 that is a diversifier and a hedge, it's a slam dunk to put a couple of percentage of portfolio
 allocation in it from their perspective. But if it's more like lever NASDAQ, whatever this
 risk on narrative sometimes proclaims it to be, even though that's counterproductive and also not
 really supported by fundamentals, then it's a totally different bar. Because then an investor
 has to say, what is the broad investment thesis on the technology and the utility and the adoption
 curve, its future of money, and all these sorts of dynamics, which lots of people do that analysis
 and they come out and say, Bitcoin is interesting, ETH is interesting. These other crypto assets
 are interesting. You can get there, but it's a very different threshold, and you're competing
 against every other interesting technology play that exists in the world today, and there are lots.
 And that's a very different question than, is this digital gold? And if so, well, then, it makes
 sense as a hedge against monetary debasement, inflation, fiscal challenges, geopolitical uncertainty,
 to have some in my portfolio. So that's what almost all these guys are watching.
 So ideally, for them to buy more and buy in size, you'd want to see Bitcoin and other crypto assets,
 presumably, but in particular, Bitcoin correlated with gold, rather than the NASDAQ and Friscan assets.
 That's right. So for Bitcoin, that's the thesis, right? For the vast majority of new adoption,
 say, is this idea of it as digital gold, right? A global scarce emerging monetary alternative.
 For the rest of crypto, it's about blockchain adoption, digital asset and blockchain adoption,
 right? And so the proof point for Bitcoin is, how does it consistently behave against that?
 And people have to look beyond these short-term moves, which are largely driven by
 leverage perpetual futures kind of volatility. And more about medium and longer term, how does it
 track against that dynamic? And when you look at it at a more zoomed out lens, it's actually
 been very compelling, even with these short-term variations. The proof point for ETH and for the
 rest of crypto is, show me the use cases, show me the adoption, show me how the technologies
 actually being deployed and transforming different parts of our economy and financial system.
 And so back to, are the institutions here and in what size? So you seem to indicate that there
 are pioneers in each of the major categories that are here. Are they in size yet? If we were to try
 to say, I don't know, if it's a baseball game, what inning are we in as far as institutional capital
 that could be allocated to crypto? Or what percentage of 100% are we kind of in? I think
 what we don't really have, what crypto natives, maybe the bank listeners probably don't have a
 lens for, is how much institutional capital we actually have? We know central banks don't
 really own very much crypto. But how about these large institutions? Have they already bought in
 or are they just starting? Well, I would say that the allocation levels that you're seeing from those
 who have is typically in kind of a one to three percent range. So that's the most common range
 that we're seeing from those who have. And that's actually pretty significant. And the way that's
 showing up, the first quarter after we launched the Bitcoin ETFs, I bet, for instance, was over 80%
 direct retail investors. Every quarter thereafter, that number has come down to the point where today
 it's close to 50%. And so the other 50 is the growth in wealth advisory and institutional.
 And so the trend is very clear, those latter buckets, which are, of course, a larger asset
 base, ultimately, than retail investors in the direct channel are today, is moving more slowly,
 but they are moving. And they're paying attention to a lot of the subtle dynamics around adoption,
 around long-term tailwinds, around political and regulatory environment. And yes, around some of the
 price behavior and how that fits or doesn't with certain investor narratives.
 So we're still early in the journey. It sounds like even with respect to institutions,
 how about central banks? I mean, part of the big driver of gold, at least lately, has been talk of
 central banks, increasing their gold allocation, China, Russia, other central banks. We haven't seen
 quite that movement or anything close to that with respect to Bitcoin. But the whole Bitcoin
 crypto narrative has been, in the fullness of time, it starts with retail and then it gets to
 institutions, larger and larger institutions. The biggest institution of all is a central bank
 treasury. And that's where gold has found itself. How long will it take Bitcoin to find itself there?
 And what's the path? Well, I don't think that that should be a core part of anyone's
 investment thesis. Remember that central banks absent a little uptick here. The
 historical trajectories, they moved away from gold. That used to be the fundamental basis of
 central bank reserves. And as we moved off the gold standard around the world,
 the migration has been in the other direction. And obviously, there's a little bit of a rebound
 in the last couple of years. But for Bitcoin, I think those other institutional categories that
 I mentioned are probably far more likely to see meaningful adoption, sovereign wealth funds,
 pension funds, insurers at Dalmat's foundations, family offices than our central banks could happen.
 There have been more surprising things that have happened. Certainly, there's discussions in various
 countries about the strategic value of accumulating some degree of Bitcoin reserves. So that is
 happening. But I would say that's kind of an out of the money option at this point in Bitcoin's
 valuation. Let's talk more about the ETF. So the two big ETFs that BlackRock has launched
 are, I bet, the Bitcoin ETF and ETH A, the Ethereum ETF. How successful have these products
 been? And can you put this in, I guess, a comparative lens with other ETFs that you've launched over
 the many decades at BlackRock? Yeah, it's been pretty amazing, right? And I think that what's
 happened is the value prop of being able to hold these assets in a accessible turnkey,
 convenient, low-cost way that for the traditional investor, the institution, the financial advisor
 can be traded as conveniently and held as owning any stock has been massive, right? And so a
 meaningful share of the investor base and particularly of new adopters, the ETF has been
 resoundingly their vehicle of choice. And the way that's manifested, you combine that,
 the value prop of the ETF wrapper, which has tremendous appeal, obviously. There's a reason
 that there's many trillions in assets held that way today with a Bitcoin and with Ether, which
 have justifiably generated a lot of excitement from now hundreds of millions of people over the world,
 you get a recipe for what we saw, which was unprecedented levels of inflows and asset growth.
 So I bet today has been the fastest growing ETF post launch in history,
 fastest to reach 80 billion by a factor of roughly 4X faster than the prior record.
 And then Ether has been the third fastest in history to introspective milestones
 along the curve, 10 billion and now 15 billion. So it's been quite a remarkable couple of years.
 No question.
 Ether had a bit of a slower start. The IBET ETF was just like a rock start from the very beginning.
 It has felt like the Ethereum ETFs, they really took off during the summer. And I don't know if
 this was the Tom Lee effect or what Tom Lee launched, of course, his Ethereum debt strategy
 over the summer seemed like the Ethereum ETFs were really catching a bid this summer, although
 the inflow has been positive for quite some time. What changed and how to explain the more recent
 uptick in the Ethereum ETF? Has this been a narrative that has finally clicked?
 Well, I think for one sentiment in either had gotten overly negative. If we think back to this
 winter, I think it got even below 1700. And it was kind of all doom and gloom. I think that
 was a little bit overdone. And so there was some element of a relief rally once that reversed.
 And people recognized that there's still lots to be excited about in Ethereum.
 And I think it was also helped, frankly, by the Genius Bill and optimism around stablecoins
 and the growth of that as a really powerful use case. There's lots of people who look at this base,
 and maybe they've struggled to really resonate with it and lots of different applications that
 have been thrown out and that have been explored over the years. But stablecoins is such a logical
 one to so many people when you see what an unlock that is for moving value around the world in a
 low cost, efficient way. So stablecoins, I think some of its options around tokenization, which
 obviously has been a topic that's generated a lot of excitement, particularly in the last year.
 And we've seen green shoots of progress in terms of growth and adoption there. And so
 I think all those things together were enough to really change sentiment and get folks' attention
 that drove what would you know was a pretty extraordinary summer of inflows and price action.
 This word tokenization, this has been a word that Larry Fink has uttered more than a few times.
 Recently, I was watching him on CNBC. I think it was a week or so ago. And he said this,
 I believe we're at the beginning of the tokenization of all assets from real estate to equities,
 to bonds across the board. And he described this as taking traditional financial assets
 and repotting them, kind of a tokenization shell. Can you paint the vision of how that happens?
 So we obviously, we have stablecoins, so that's one form of tokenization. But Larry's talking
 about tokenizing all of the financial assets that we have. So how do we go from here to there? What's
 the tokenization roadmap for BlackRock? Well, we, as you know, really started with
 Biddle as our first public blockchain tokenized fund, it's a tokenized private money market fund.
 And that's been very successful, almost $3 billion in assets and the key unlocked there.
 And I think this is a really important point to remember. It's all about taking the generalized
 value prop of tokenization, which has lots of exciting things, right? 24/7, real-time settlement,
 digitally native, global, interoperable, programmable, and saying, how do we deploy that in a given
 asset class in a way that creates material new value or utility for investors? And so in the case
 of Biddle, and in general, in the case of money market funds, tokenizing them has broken the
 paradigm that previously existed that forced you to choose between capturing full yield on your
 US dollar savings and having full liquidity, right? For the first time, you could hold US dollars
 and it's tokenized money market fund. And then as soon as you needed liquidity to make a payment
 or settle a trade, et cetera, you could convert that to a stable coin. And that I think is a really
 powerful value proposition. That's why this asset class far and above any others to date
 has seen real growth and adoption and tokenization. So now the question is, where do we go next?
 And a lot of it is going to stay in this category, right? Because there's lots more to do to be able
 to open up access and serve more and more clients and investors. But also it's about
 figuring out what are the second and third, next most viable asset classes where you can use tokenization
 to drive real utility to expand access to create an incrementally distinctive level of value for
 users of that. And that's the journey we're on now. It seems like an exciting journey. I noticed
 a headline that I didn't quite understand. It was earlier this month and it was a BlackRock
 unveiling a Genius Act aligned money market fund. I wasn't actually sure if this was
 Viddle or something else. And what in particular needs to be Genius Act aligned? What does that
 unlock for money markets and other tokenized products at BlackRock? Sure. So there's a regulatory
 construct in the US called 2A7. And that describes a very specific, very strict approach to managing
 a money market fund that is meant to effectively maximize liquidity and safety of the way that's
 held. And it turns out that the Genius Act prescribed a reserve management framework that was quite
 similar to 2A7, but not quite the same. I see. And so what that headline was referring to was
 an existing fund that's a 2A7 fund simply having some slight modifications to the reserve management
 approach that would make it a viable option as a Genius compliant measure. Now that fund is not
 tokenized, right? But that is saying to the extent there are potential money market fund
 clients who do need to hold their assets in a Genius compliant way, that's a vehicle that
 historically has always been 2A7 compliant. Now it's also going to be Genius compliant.
 So this is about BlackRock getting its money market funds in a position such that they can be
 used by other companies to essentially back their own stablecoins. So this could be the backing for
 other stablecoins out there. That's right. We would expect that the vast majority of stablecoin
 reserve assets are going to be in money market funds. And that's a competency that we are very
 deep in. At BlackRock, we manage roughly a trillion dollars in liquidity funds and money market funds
 globally. And so it's exciting to see the growth of stablecoins, which we're big believers in.
 We've had a long-standing partnership with Circle dating back to 2022 and the growth of
 USDC particularly in the last year has been amazing to watch and we're very excited for that.
 And so this is a category that's going to continue to grow in significant ways.
 Last time you were here, we asked a question about tokenization in terms of what's missing,
 what's missing to get tokenization off to the races. And you said there were three things that
 were missing, institutional custodians, secondary marketplaces, and more regulatory clarity.
 In the past 12 months or so, how far have we come on those three dimensions of what was missing?
 So I think the first one actually tremendous progress in a little over a year where a number
 of the largest global banks, global custodians, have or are developing capabilities for custody
 of both crypto and tokenized assets. So I think outstanding progress on that front and that's
 going to be critical certainly because if you think of the majority of institutional investors,
 they intend to, they would want to, if they're going to hold an asset that they used to hold in
 a non-tokenized form and now they're going to hold a tokenized form, they would way rather
 be able to just do that with the existing custodian that they use for whatever that asset class is
 or whatever that fund category is. And now that's possible. Much more possible than I was.
 It's made tremendous progress, I would say. It's not quite there in a fully ubiquitous way,
 but it certainly seems to be headed in that direction. Liquidity venues, I would say mixed.
 There's been tremendous progress, obviously, in the DeFi world of creating platforms
 for tokenized assets to trade and also to do other things with them to borrow against them,
 use them as collateral, et cetera. But less so in sort of the tradfi exchange world extending
 into tokenization and listing assets. And so I think that may yet come and certainly we've seen
 some announcements to that effect in recent months. And then the third piece, the regulatory
 clarity, and this is the really interesting one, as much as this SEC has been incredibly
 supportive of innovation in this space, this is a really hard problem. It's not a simple,
 I think crypto people sometimes need to realize that regulatory clarity doesn't just be in clarity
 that there are no rules. And so there actually is a really complex challenge before us as an
 industry and frankly in concert with agencies like the SEC to figure out how to make the old
 to rules and what novel rules and exceptions come into play that harness the innovative
 potential and opportunities from this technology without undermining some of the key principles
 that exist in a market structure today. And I don't think there's anyone in the world who has
 written down on a piece of paper, like here's all the answers. If only the regulators would do this,
 then it would be great. It's a really hard set of problems to solve. And that's a journey that
 we're on with other players around the ecosystem and with regulators. Imagine a world where traditional
 finance meets the power of blockchain seamlessly. That's what mantle is pioneering with blockchain
 for banking, a revolutionary new category at the intersection of tradfi and web3. At the heart is
 you are the world's first money app built fully on chain. It gives you a Swiss I ban account blending
 fiat currencies like the euro, the Swiss franc, the United States dollar or the renminbi with crypto
 all in one place. Enjoy real world usability and blockchains trust and program ability.
 Transactions post directly to the blockchain compatible with tradfi rails and packed with
 integrated DeFi futures. You are transforms mantle network into the ultimate platform for
 on-chain financial services, unifying payments, trading and assets like the MI4, the MEs protocol
 and functions FBTC backed by developer grants, ecosystem incentives and top distribution through
 the UR app, reward stations and buy bit launch pool. For MNT holders, every economic activity in
 UR drives value back to you, embodying the entire stack and future growth of this super app ecosystem.
 Follow mantle on X at mantle underscore official for the latest updates on blockchain for banking.
 That's X dot com slash mantle underscore official crypto is risky. Your sleep shouldn't be eight
 sleeps mission is simple better sleep through cutting edge technology. Their new pod five is a
 smart mattress cover that fits on the top of your bed. It automatically adjusts the temperature on
 each side so you and your partner can both sleep the way that you like. It's clinically proven to
 give you up to one extra hour of quality sleep per night. Eight sleeps pod five uses AI to learn
 your sleep patterns, regulate temperature, reduce snoring and track key health metrics like HRV
 and breathing with a new full body temperature regulating blanket and built in speaker is the
 most complete sleep upgrade yet upgrade your sleep and recovery with a sleep use code bankless
 at eight sleep dot com slash bankless to get up to $700 off the pod five ultra during their holiday
 sale. That's eight sleep dot com slash bankless. You also get 30 days to try it risk free link in
 the show notes for more information on this journey of regulatory clarity. Is this going to take
 a bills in Congress? Is this going to take something like the clarity act or is most the blocking
 tackling behind this rule making with regulators and just defining processes and the nitty gritty
 of things? What's it going to take? I think it's meaningfully more complicated to try to create
 legislation to address all the tokenization related regulatory challenges.
 I think that that is more likely to happen at the agency level than necessarily through
 a new piece of legislation. We'll see how that plays out. There have been points where
 that idea has been floated of trying to tackle tokenization within clarity or within a separate
 bill and that may yet happen. But there's, as I said, it's a pretty complex topic. The good
 news is there's a lot of positive energy around finding ways to help make this work, to support
 innovation in the space, particularly innovation around tokenization. So I do, as hard as the
 challenges, I'm quite optimistic. And then do you feel like we've made progress on that? So if
 it's a lot of blocking, tackling regulators, you're just sort of defining things 12 months ago,
 I don't know where we are, but now as you look forward to where we are now and even looking
 forward over the next 12 months, do you get the sense that we're making a lot of progress that
 we're on the right track? I think so. I think that frankly, what needed to happen was for players
 in the ecosystem to actually do the work knowing that there was an opportunity to engage with
 regulators and figure out solutions to these problems for people in the industry to do the
 work of actually defining in a very clear way what the problems were and what a reasonable set
 of solutions would look like. I think that work has happened on a lot of fronts. Now there's a
 process of engagement with regulators in a very consultative way. It's been a very sort of
 consultative collaborative process to try to put that into action and deliver the clarity that's needed.
 So if we have the institutional custodians, if that's kind of checkmark, and we're on the path
 towards greater regulatory clarity, will we get the third by virtue of that? So once we have more
 of the regulatory clarity, will we get the secondary marketplaces? Will we get the liquidity and is
 this all falling into place now? I think that is the natural progression of it. So obviously,
 this is a space that we're spending a lot of time on as a firm. Lots of players around the
 ecosystem are. And I think that these elements of progress across those three threads that we've
 talked about, do you have a self-reinforcing sort of flywheel effect compounding off of each other?
 And so this will be a pretty pivotal 24 to 36 months ahead, where tokenization really has an
 opportunity to prove itself in generating adoption and driving real incremental utility and efficiency
 in markets in the way that has long been held out as a real area of promise.
 What's the bull case if we look forward to say five years from now, 10 years from now for tokenization?
 I recall you saying last time it's kind of a binary. We have kind of no tokens, none of this
 works or basically everything. We have many tokens, everything is tokenized. So looking at kind of
 Wall Street and US capital markets in five to 10 years is basically all of our assets when it
 comes to ETFs or stocks or real estate, just everything under the sun. Is it all available in
 some sort of token form and all of this available on kind of your Aladdin platform, let's say?
 Well, that is the bull case. I think five is probably too soon. But when you talk about 10,
 with all these technology innovations, there is a S curve where if you really hit lift off,
 the rate of adoption can really accelerate and there can be a fast-paced migration to a new
 technology paradigm. And that's the journey that we're on. And as you noted, there are many asset
 classes that are pretty interesting candidates for this. Obviously, we started with money market
 funds, but you think about stocks, bonds, ETFs, commodities, real estate, private markets funds,
 lots of asset classes that have been tried with mixed degrees of success. But once you have a
 bunch of asset classes that hit that inflection point, it becomes a lot easier to bring along
 other asset classes in behind it because more and more people are migrating to that new infrastructure
 paradigm and they've built comfort with it and they've built the capabilities and the systems
 to be able to interact with it. Who's left to convince on Wall Street, Robby?
 So I think Crypto has taken a while to really saturate in Wall Street. It feels like in this
 cycle, we had some major achievements on that score. Even Jamie Diamond, I think it was a clip
 from last week. He's got this quote, "Crypto is real, blockchain, stablecoins,
 JP Morgan, deposit coin. You can move stuff, smart contracts are real. All this stuff is real.
 It'll be used by all of us to facilitate better transactions and customer service."
 This is even Jamie Diamond, who has himself been crypto skeptical in the past,
 seemingly warming up even further to crypto. Is that everybody? We've got BlackRock,
 we've got JP Morgan. Is there anyone else left on Wall Street to convince?
 Well, frankly, JP Morgan has been a great leader in this space and they have been for
 many years and that's done a lot of development work around tokenization.
 They're a huge player in the IBIT ecosystem. They've been a leader there. They've been
 innovating, frankly, the group that needs to still be convinced is actual investors.
 That's one of the challenges that tokenization has faced so far is that these projects will
 develop tokenized asset offerings and the end investor demand hasn't always showed up.
 That's not their fault. It comes back to what is the actual tangible utility unlock
 that you're using tokenization to generate for me. Does that overcome the inertia effect
 and whatever risk and operational complexity is involved in migrating to that new format?
 The bar for that is pretty high. We've passed that with stablecoins, but it's not clear that we've
 passed that with other assets. Maybe flip this. Is there maybe a more bearish case
 for tokenization? What if we only get to stablecoins and money market funds that back stablecoins
 and the middle fund and that sort of thing? Nothing else takes off. Can you envision that world?
 What would go wrong, do you think, with tokenization in order to have that type of a more bearish outcome?
 I think that probably the bear case is that only stablecoins work. It's hard to imagine a world
 where not even stablecoins have significant adoption because already today it's 300 billion in market
 cap. That's in a pretty high interest rate environment, which is remarkable. The stablecoin value
 proposition, this ability to move money around the world in near real time, at near zero cost,
 between any two people with a smartphone to get access the world over to digital US dollars,
 which many, many billions of people around the world have shown a clear desire to be able to
 have that access. That horse has left the barn. It's just a question of how fast and how broadly
 adopted across other domains to stablecoins get, whether we're talking about retail
 remittances, which are massively inefficient today, cross-border payments for corporate multinationals,
 which have lots of frictions and costs associated with them, and maybe more ambitiously,
 financial market settlement activities, so subscribing and redeeming from funds in stablecoins,
 settling trades in stablecoins, processing corporate actions, margin and collateral in
 stablecoins. Lots of pretty exciting applications for it. That, I think, is the bear case for tokenization.
 It's actually not that bad. I mean, even the bear case, I guess, with stablecoins and the
 genius bill, it's not clear that that's been fully priced in. You said the horse has left the barn,
 but it seems like we are only getting started on that. How is that going to shake things up or
 change things across traditional finance? Will this change the structure of banks? There have
 been some instances where maybe some banks are not favorable of letting interest go to, say,
 crypto exchanges. At least there's been some fights about this, but one gets the sense that
 the underlying structure of traditional finance will be shaken up. We'll change a little bit
 with the advent of stablecoins. Do you know how? Do you have any predictions?
 What's interesting is, I think, if the industry executes well, then the whole fight-over interest,
 which ultimately was banned in the genius bill, becomes not that big of an issue because tokenized
 yield funds become the natural vehicle through which users hold US dollars on a going concern
 basis, digital US dollars, and capture that full interest. They're holding these assets,
 which are clearly securities, but that's okay because they're being used to hold not to make
 payments. Then the moment they need to make a payment or settle a trade, they convert.
 So stablecoins become the operating cash and tokenized yield funds become the investment or
 hold cash and the ladders where you capture yield. So even if stablecoins don't pay any yield,
 they're still going to be very useful in payments. We sort of see that as the natural future state
 of this ecosystem. Obviously, to do that, you need to really drive frictions to zero pretty much
 in moving between tokenized yield funds and stablecoins. You need to have tokenized yield funds that
 are accessible and that have essentially instant and very cheap liquidity convertibility back and
 forth between themselves and stablecoins. If we have that, do you see a world where we have many
 different stablecoins or right now we have two power law winners. There's Tether and USDC from
 Circle, but will that change? Will we have hundreds, maybe thousands of different stablecoins?
 I don't think so. Network effects are really powerful in the stablecoin space and so there's a lot of
 value in being widely accepted in having liquidity from a trading perspective and being used on
 platforms ultimately in the future in having liquidity and volume in a foreign exchange pair
 against stablecoin. I think you'll continue to see growth in the industry and healthy competition,
 but I certainly wouldn't expect we'll have a thousand different stablecoins. I don't see
 that level of fragmentation as being efficient. We're getting closer to the end of 2025 and the
 beginning of 2026. If you fast forward and you think about maybe November of 2026, what do you hope
 that crypto has accomplished by that time? What does it look like? Are there some major things
 in your mind and maybe the same question for BlackRock?
 I think that the big test of the next year plus is going to be, okay, for many years,
 there was frustration over an absence of regulatory clarity in the US, and certainly some of that
 was a fair complaint, but it became almost a mantra or cliche at points to hear, sorry, clarity,
 sorry, clarity. Now that's coming. It's been a very supportive environment from that standpoint
 over the course of 2025, and so the test is going to be, prove it, show the adoption, show the real
 economic use cases, and there's obviously lots of really exciting early proof point, proof of concept
 type stuff happening particularly in the DeFi world, but show me the examples of places where
 we as a human society or economy either couldn't do something or we had to do it in a really
 inefficient way, and then using blockchain or using digital assets, we've now solved that,
 and we do it overwhelmingly using blockchain in a much more efficient way, right? And to date,
 there's been a pretty short list of things that fit that category. Bitcoin is the first
 monetary instrument in 3,000 years to gain global adoption because of its technological breakthroughs.
 Stable coins and moving value around the world in a 10x better, more efficient way,
 and a handful of things that are happening on Ethereum and some of these other blockchains,
 but that's sort of tidal wave of really powerful use cases, I think we're still waiting on beyond
 that. And now it's finally the environment where that regulatory support exists and so it's time to
 approve it. 2026 is the show me phase, maybe it's the building phase. Robbie, this has been great.
 I mean, last question. So every cycle, we have institutions who talk about crypto, but they don't
 necessarily follow through and build or get very excited during the bull market, but they head for
 the exit as things turn down the bear market. And so for those institutional investors or those
 institutions who are building on crypto, and this is maybe their first cycle actually in,
 they see this volatility. They see the $30 billion sell off or red days like today where this looks
 to be maybe a negative 10% on total crypto market cap. And they start heading for the exit. What's
 your advice to them? Well, I think my advice is more for the people coming in and how
 they approach the space. I think it's very important to be discerning and to be very particular about
 which assets one is going to hold, right? There's a reason Bitcoin is still roughly 65% of the market
 cap of the space because it has very clear product market fit and investor narrative and a big
 addressable market as this digital gold like asset. There's a reason there's consolidation
 in a lot of the rest of the market cap in a few top assets, which is those are the handful that
 have really proven themselves and developed some degree of product market fit and economic utility.
 One has to be very wary going far down the table. There's hundreds of thousands of crypto assets
 out there today. The vast majority of those are will be totally worthless. And so investors have
 to be careful around that. And they also, I think, should be wary around trading on a short-term basis.
 Certainly short-term levered basis is a tough game a lot of times in the crypto space. And
 I think the people who've done the best in this space have taken a much more long-term
 fundamental view and understood that you have to be patient and you have to understand that there's
 volatility in this space and there will be cycles. Probably, Mitch, Nick, thank you so much for joining
 us. Best of luck to BlackRock in the show me phase of 2026. I appreciate your time today.
 Thank you, Ryan. Good to see you.
 Got to let you know, none of this has been financial advice. Of course,
 you could lose what you put in, but we are headed west. This is the frontier. It's not for everyone,
 but we're glad to have you on the bankless journey. Thanks a lot.
 [Music]
