TITLE: Investing Trends for 2026: DeFi, Tokenization, Capital Formation, Speculation & AI
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Poes3EpAR5c
VIDEO_ID: Poes3EpAR5c

TRANSCRIPT:
I think the first and foremost thing that's been huge this year is you have this
 ultimate decline of not only career risk, but this acceptance from Wall Street.
 Obviously we have people like Larry Fink writing the tokenization, writing about
 tokenization in the Economist.
 We have BlackRock's highest grossing ETF products being Bitcoin.
 We have hyper liquid that actually just surpassed the NASDAQ in net income.
 So this is the first time I would say that crypto is no longer a contrarian thesis.
 It's no longer a contrarian thing.
 I would say it's a very consensus insight.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to Bankless, where we explore investing on the frontier of crypto.
 This is David Hoffman, and I'm here with not only my co-host Ryan Tronadams,
 but we are also joined by two members of Bankless Ventures,
 fellow GP Ben Lekoff, an investment partner, Arnav Pogadiola.
 Ben Arnav, welcome to Bankless.
 Thanks for having us.
 Stoked to be here, guys.
 Broad question, is there stuff to invest in in crypto in 2026?
 What do you guys think?
 This would be a short podcast if there wasn't.
 So yes, is the short answer, and we're very excited about a lot of things.
 Yeah, we got over an hour probably of content to talk about, Arnav.
 You are the youngest of the group.
 When you look at crypto investing in the venture category in 2026,
 what excites you?
 What gets you going?
 Yeah, I mean, I think unlike prior cycles, there is stuff in every single sector that's
 kind of broken out.
 I think DeFi is looking monstrous with the adoption of RWAs this year.
 Stablecoin payments if you're in a crypto fintech is just monstrous.
 Prediction markets have just kind of hit escape velocity.
 I think the realm of opportunity is 100x more than I think it's ever been.
 So it's super exciting.
 Some big statements.
 We're definitely going to dive into why Arnav and the rest of the Bankless team
 think that that is true, and the sectors that we are investing in.
 Now, previously in Bankless, we have been very careful to not cross-contaminate
 between media and ventures.
 These are two different organizations where only Ryan and myself cross the barrier.
 But also at Bankless Media, we never let good content go to waste.
 And at Bankless Ventures, we've been working pretty hard developing our
 investment focus themes for 2026.
 The categories, the trends that we want to focus our investments at Bankless Ventures
 for the next year.
 In this episode, that is what you are going to hear.
 We want to share what Bankless Ventures is looking to invest in in 2026,
 and why we've come to these conclusions.
 A fundamental part of the entire Bankless journey is learning to be investors in crypto.
 Every Bankless podcast episode has been in pursuit of learning how to effectively
 allocate capital in this industry.
 Answering the question, how do I effectively invest?
 Is one of the main motivations behind creating the Bankless podcast all the way back in 2020,
 when the industry was far more naive and unsophisticated?
 Now, Ryan, myself, and Ben here, we've all been in crypto since 2017-2016.
 We've seen different investing meadows come and go.
 And while each cycle has its own characters,
 the thematic common denominators of every cycle are about the same.
 DeFi, tokenization, capital formation, and speculation.
 These themes are persistent across cycles,
 but generating outsized returns in each of these themes requires
 some level of precision rather than broad capital allocation.
 It's not enough to just invest in DeFi.
 You must match the theme with the current market fitness of the era.
 Investing in DeFi in 2025 is just not the same as investing in DeFi in 2019, obviously.
 So in this episode, we are going to go through each category I just mentioned
 and share how Bankless Ventures is allocating capital
 inside of these broad themes in pursuit of outsized returns for our LPs.
 You can now borrow USDC against your Ethereum and Bitcoin on Coinbase.
 Crypto-backed loans on Coinbase make assessing liquidity seamless for crypto-huddlers.
 Powered by Morpho, Coinbase Crypto-Back Loans gives you direct access to on-chain financing,
 allowing you to take out loans at competitive rates using your crypto as collateral.
 Over $1 billion in loans has been opened through Coinbase to date.
 On the Coinbase app, eligible users can borrow up to 1 million USDC using Bitcoin or Ethereum
 as collateral. Users can convert their USDC into fiat to make down payments, refinance debt,
 or cover urgent expenses in the market.
 The benefits are numerous.
 Interest rates are variable typically between 4% and 8% and respond to market conditions.
 Loans are approved in seconds without credit checks.
 Repayment schedules are variable, meaning there are no fixed deadlines.
 The kicker?
 Coinbase will not treat borrow transactions as taxable events.
 Manage loans directly in the Coinbase app with ease.
 It's currently available to US customers, except New York.
 And additional collateral types and increased loan limits are coming soon.
 Want to learn more?
 Click the link in the show notes or visit coinbase.com/borrow.
 Introducing FraxUSD, the Genius Align Digital Dollar from Frax.
 It's a secure, stable, and fully backed by institutional grade real-world assets,
 cussetied by BlackRock, Superstate, and Fidelity.
 It's always redeemable one-to-one, transparently audited,
 and built for payments, DeFi, and banking.
 The best of all worlds.
 At the core is FraxNet, an on-chain FinTech platform built to align with emerging
 US regulatory frameworks, where you can mint, redeem, and use FraxUSD with just a few clicks.
 Deposit USDC, send a bank wire, or tokenize treasuries,
 and receive programmable digital dollars straight to your wallet.
 FraxNet users benefit from the underlying return of US treasuries,
 and earn just by using the system.
 Whether you're bridging, minting, or holding,
 your FraxUSD works for you.
 Frax isn't just a protocol, it's a digital nation,
 powered by the Frax token and governed by its global communities.
 Join that community, and help shape Frax Nation's future,
 by going to frax.com/r/bankless.
 Frax, designed for the future of compliant digital finance.
 Token launches are making a comeback,
 but things have changed since the 2017 ICO era.
 Now we have eight years of research on how to fairly distribute tokens to the market.
 All that progress culminates in the Uniswap continuous clearing auction.
 No sniping, no timing games, no whale advantages,
 just fair, transparent on-chain price discovery.
 Here's how it works.
 A project set to side an allotment of tokens.
 The continuous clearing auction sells them continuously,
 block by block, over a customizable window, typically a few days.
 Supply is fixed across the auction,
 and as demand comes in, the clearing price adjusts.
 If new bids arrive, the price moves up.
 If they don't, it holds steady.
 Since bids are filled gradually over the entire window,
 early participants often end up with a lower average price,
 while still giving everyone time to place orders.
 When the auction ends, the proceeds concede a Uniswap V4 pool,
 giving you day one liquidity without exchange fees or market maker contracts.
 But while the Uniswap continuous clearing auction is perfect for launching new tokens,
 it's also an extremely flexible protocol.
 It can be leveraged for price discovery,
 bootstrapping and auctioning of existing low liquidity assets as well.
 If you're launching a token and want an on-chain,
 transparent sale that gets tokens into the hands of real believers,
 the Uniswap continuous clearing auction is the way to do it.
 Check it out at cca.uniswap.org.
 I think one thing that's important to mention before we get in
 is some of the particular ways that capital formation forms inside of crypto
 and what that means.
 A lot of bank list listeners will notice that crypto happens in these waves.
 People have called these four-year cycles before.
 There's usually some sort of proof of concept stage followed by
 people see early traction and they get exuberant about something happening in crypto
 and then narrative runs far ahead of the fundamentals and price goes out of control
 and then things bubble and they pop and then we get the bear market.
 We go back to despair.
 Folks like A16Z have pointed this out that this really follows builder waves too.
 So capital forms and builders have ideas and they pursue these narratives
 in these approximately like four-year waves.
 And one thing that I actually appreciate about crypto.
 This is a benefit to anyone who's investing in the space is during the bear phase,
 during that despair part, the bad projects are cult and the good projects survive.
 So it allows you to like re-underwrite your ideas and your theses for the space.
 It gives you kind of a clean slate.
 So you can just be like, okay, what happened last cycle?
 What's still real about this industry?
 I have a sober mind now and we can consider what's going to be important moving forward
 and you can rebuild and then you can reload.
 And builders do this as well and so do investors.
 It's kind of like, you know, the idea of a forest, right?
 If a forest gets too dense, if it doesn't have a fire every once in a while,
 then kind of the new growth can't actually flourish and grow.
 And so every once in a while, a healthy forest needs a fire to clear out all the underbrush
 and you create renewal so we can have something new or roll the seven on the craps table.
 Yeah, you totally do.
 Or to get like another metaphor basically is just kind of this is survival of the fittest.
 This is like an evolutionary process and you have some maybe dominant organisms
 on the earth and every once in a while an asteroid comes, destroys them all.
 And we get a chance to see what can persist through these cycles and what can grow anew.
 And we get all of these new life forms.
 For me, and I think for a lot of venture investors,
 a lot of this starts, I guess you could say Bitcoin, but then after Bitcoin.
 So Bitcoin is kind of the original store of values case.
 We uncovered what like the original use case for blockchains.
 But then Ethereum and the idea of programmable finance, that's kind of birth to all of the
 other investment categories and particularly the investment themes that we're going to talk
 about today.
 And since Ethereum, since the birth of the smart contract platform and programmable finance,
 there's been roughly like four waves.
 And I'll give the dates and I'll measure this by the crest.
 Some of you guys will have been here, been present during those years and some have gotten in,
 you know, in future ways, but the first was 2017.
 That's when we crested in wave one.
 Wave two was roughly 2021.
 And again, this is the peak of the cycle.
 Wave three is where we've been now 2024 and into 2025.
 And then wave four, again, we don't know when the next wave will crest.
 It doesn't have to happen in four-year cycles as it has previous.
 But let's say it does, that would be 2029.
 Maybe there are reasons this wave crest a little bit earlier or differently or something.
 But our job really as investors in the space, and I think everyone listening who's deploying
 capital to crypto.
 And by the way, for retail investors, there's even more opportunity to do this because ICOs
 are back, seems like, you know, your job is really to forecast the world of, say, 2028, 2029.
 And invest in the founders and the categories that will create that world.
 So that's the idea.
 Right now, as we enter 2026, we have an opportunity, of course, to re-underwrite our themes
 and figure out what we're still bullish on and figure out what the new unlocks are
 for the next wave of growth.
 So those four themes, DeFi, tokenization, capital formation, speculation markets,
 those have been present across all of the waves up until now.
 Like it's crypto, programmable money does all of those same things.
 But there are new manifestations and new sub-segments to take a look at.
 And that's what we're doing today.
 Maybe we could go through each of those four themes.
 And David, the first is DeFi.
 You mentioned it.
 This has been really the theme that the Bankless thesis was based around.
 And when you and I first got connected and started really investing in crypto,
 I'm getting excited about it.
 That was 2019.
 So that was in kind of wave one, in between of wave one and wave two.
 But take us back to Ethereum in 2017 and tell the story of DeFi.
 Yeah, the building blocks of DeFi really got started.
 Of course, I mean, if you want to go all the way down to into the basement with the ERC 20 token.
 And you could see a bunch of attempts to create structures and infrastructure on top of that.
 Ether Delta being one being one early indication of what might be worthwhile of investment further down the line.
 0x also came around that era.
 And it's really all about just tokens and trading tokens.
 The ERC 20 primitive was perhaps the most important primitive in all of crypto.
 And the infrastructure that surrounded that was all about trading those tokens.
 And so it barely worked.
 Oh my God, it sucked.
 But it did work.
 Ether Delta did work.
 And it really was all of these prototypes or just
 premonitions of things to come.
 Now, if you're around in 2017 and if you're paying really close attention
 and you stuck around through 2018, you might have been able to.
 Well, ICO is one through 99.
 We're collapsing in a burning fire around you.
 If you were still paying attention, you would have noticed this one.
 One startup still chugging along called MakerDow.
 And that was before DeFi was even a thing.
 And so one of the themes that we see across waves is that there's at least one or two examples
 of the next wave that is still starting up as the wave that came before is burning down.
 And MakerDow was really the first era of real DeFi, which we are calling the second wave,
 the 2021 wave, where as Ryan called it, the absolute peak of wave to really, really
 crested in 2029.
 We're calling this slow DeFi.
 Collateral based applications like MakerDow
 of a compound that really fueled the store of value nature of ether and other tokens.
 And then also things like Uniswap, the first decentralized exchange that as an investment
 produced outsized returns for any and all of those investors.
 Was Uniswap 2018 or 2019, at least 2019?
 The top of the valuation of the Uniswap was 2021.
 The investments into Uniswap came in 2019 and 2020.
 And so that was right at the beginning of wave number one.
 We also had some failures, some catastrophic failures.
 Terra Luna is in this category as well.
 Some weird platypus between a stablecoin and DeFi and economic experiments.
 And so this is kind of some of the history that wave one and two brought us to
 and starts to get us into wave three, which is again, like Ryan said,
 we are starting to close the door on wave three, looking into the rear view mirror
 and measuring successes and failures.
 So through line, you can see with a lot of these, it reminds me of the
 Chrystix and the next big thing starts off looking like a toy.
 Yeah.
 And then there also was a Pachy McCormick article that I love that would say,
 it's just practice.
 And you see like all of these little glimmers of good ideas that are taken
 and then they're expanded upon their, maybe they blow up in incredible fashion.
 But there's pieces that sustain into these next waves as we move on.
 Yeah, that's right.
 And the bad ideas do collapse and they burn off and the good ideas kind of persist.
 I think wave three has been interesting if wave two is sort of the birth of modern DeFi,
 wave three has almost been like a refinement of the concept that we've seen in this kind of 2020,
 four 2025 cycle. So we saw early phases of restaking.
 That's now pivoting into something a little bit different, like Eigen layers
 going into the verifiable compute realm.
 And then we saw an extrapolation on the Aave maker Dao idea of collateralized
 lending and borrowing with some more modularization.
 Like more foes been a big success this wave.
 And so as Pendle, for example, and we actually did see a stable coin that is
 not a completely centralized stable coin, like a tether in USDC that has actually started,
 I think this will persist across cycles. That's Athena, right?
 With the idea of the kind of the basis trade yield type of stable coin.
 And perp dexes have been a major theme.
 So previously, most of the perps and crypto were traded on centralized exchanges.
 This has been the first wave that we've seen decentralized exchange perp dexes have the
 volume and the liquidity and the traction that they do. There've been a few other things,
 but those are the things I would highlight as successes in this in this third wave.
 And broadly speaking, I will say that a lot of the third wave stuff is a lot of what we're
 what was previously centralized services from big prop trading firms or lending and borrowing
 desks on collateralized lending and borrowing desks start to move on chain in more sophisticated
 ways. That's right. You can you can measure that too, right? Like by a percentage in terms of what
 percentage of spot and perps volume is off like off chain versus on chain. And like what is it now
 David? Like I've seen estimates of like 20% something like this. Yeah, something like 22 to 26%
 is moving moving on chain. I think I think these are lessons that the industry learned
 post FTX, the contagion of all the borrowing lending desks. And that brings us to modern times
 wave four. And so there's a line here, we're going from looking in their rear view mirror
 to looking out of the front windshield of our car as we drive forward into 2026.
 And so now we are going to make predictive ideas as to where we think is the appropriate place to
 allocate capital inside of the DeFi category across the next DeFi wave. And now I want to turn it to
 Arnov. Arnov, you spoke briefly at the very beginning of the pod, but we're turning back to you.
 When you look at DeFi in 2026, where do you think is the smart way to allocate capital?
 Yeah, absolutely. I think I'll start by sharing before I go into things I'm super bullish on for
 wave four and beyond a few of the constraints and the recent unlocks, I think are very interesting.
 So you can reason about what's coming next. I think one of the most interesting pieces of
 this cycle is kind of this shift towards becoming more institutional. Today, I would still say things
 are not where they need to be. So we don't have enough customizable inference institutions yet.
 We don't have credible risk ratings of protocols. We still don't have enough liquidity on most
 long tail assets. So an institution can swap its size. And we still have a lot of smart contract
 risk, right? And I think that's very well exemplified by the recent balance or hack,
 a protocol that has been around for five years and had a zero day. So we still have these things.
 And I think a few other things I call out are on ramps are still not where they need to be.
 You have a 90% attrition rate when somebody's just trying to swap, go $100 from their bank account
 to $100 on chain. And I think the last thing I'd mention is that we still don't have enough
 exogenous assets on chain yet to justify the switching costs for institutions.
 Bikes aren't off. Do you mean like real world assets? Because we have stablecoins,
 we have dollars, I guess we have some degree of treasuries. But apart from that, we don't have
 anything outside of our on chain crypto native assets. We do, but it just proliferated this year.
 And we'll go into that more in the tokenization section. But yeah, that being said, I'd say 2025
 was definitely a breakout year, mostly driven by a lot more regulatory clarity and institutional
 adoption. I think the first and foremost thing that's been huge this year is you have this ultimate
 decline of not only career risk, but this acceptance from Wall Street. Obviously, we have people like
 Larry Fink writing the tokenization, writing about tokenization in the economist. We have
 BlackRock's highest grossing ETF products being Bitcoin. We have hyper liquid that actually just
 surpassed the NASDAQ in net income. So this is the first time I would say that crypto is no longer
 a contrarian thesis. It's no longer a contrarian thing. I would say it's a very consensus insight.
 And stablecoins only make that 100x more true when you see everybody adopting stablecoin payment
 rails or even launching their own stablecoin. And beyond all that, I would say stablecoins,
 tokenized treasuries are just straight up and to the right. It's honestly unbelievable how
 parabolic that growth has been. And very last thing is that from a regulatory front, we have a lot
 of unlocks this year. The CFTC providing a more advanced perps framework. We have the Genius Act,
 Clarity Act, probably next year. All of these things will lend itself to DeFi just proliferating
 like 100x more than it currently has. But getting into the four things that I think are incredibly
 interesting over this next cycle, I think the first would be on-chain lending. You might think
 it's already done with Ave and Morpho, but I would say we barely started pretty much all of lending
 today is predicated on some fashion of over-collateralized variable rate loans. But in the future,
 I absolutely believe that we're going to get into fixed rate, unsecured under-collateralized
 loans, and lending against long-tail assets. And when you think about how lending works in
 tradFi, it is primarily unsecured or under-collateralized loans. And they are usually fixed rate and
 fixed term on a much wider variety of assets. I think crypto will only follow the same path.
 And in our first innings of all of these things, I would say unsecured under-collateralized,
 you have people like Three-Jane, Wildcat, Credit on World Coin. For fixed rate lending,
 Morpho B2 is going to be huge this year. This will be the first material swing I think we've had
 it fixed rate because we have a very Lindy protocol breaking into it. And lastly, I think exotic
 lending is going to take off a lot more, things like lending against RWAs. So I think that'll be
 awesome. So that's it. It's the first area I'm super bullish on as far as thesis is go.
 The second area would probably be equity perps. So far, obviously, perps have been massive this
 year with hyper liquid and all these other new perps X is launching. What's very interesting about
 US equity perps is that the TAM is roughly 15 to 20 X greater than all of crypto trading today.
 And I think that is massive. I think Arnav, people don't realize that crypto basically
 invented the perp, right? I mean, some people may not be aware of that, but can you talk about that
 for a minute? Yeah, absolutely. So perps are this really elegant mechanism where
 previously, all we had is options, right, where you express trade with leverage, but it's dated,
 right? There is an expiry. Perpetual futures essentially offer a more elegant conduit for
 leverage with no expiry. So you can take out 10, 20, even 100 X leverage on ETH. And you cannot
 get like, there is no expiry. However, obviously, you can get liquidated instead. So it's a different
 form factor to manage risk. It feels like traders in tradFi should love this. Equity
 traders should love this. I mean, do you think that it's one of the mechanisms that they're looking
 over at crypto and being like, Oh my God, we're jealous of you guys. You have these perps,
 or do you think they're getting all of what they need in terms of leverage and margin from options?
 I think there's a few things to unpack there. Definitely options are a great instrument,
 and there's a monstrous amount of volume in the options market. I guess for reference,
 their hyper liquid has done about $4 trillion in volume to date cumulative. The options market
 does that in one day in the US alone, right? So these guys are monsters, right? But they've
 definitely taken notice to perps. I think the biggest thing that people really took notice to
 is that hyper liquid flipped the Nasdaq's revenue. That's kind of a really big turning point.
 But beyond that, it's the fact that retail may find this product more interesting.
 Retail loves perps in contrast to options. Yeah. I mean, it needs to be tested in the broader
 market because a great example is Robinhood does a billion dollars in pure retail options
 revenue a year. It is our highest grossing product. One thing that I'm very interested to see is
 Robinhood or some other exchange when it converts these options traders to perp traders.
 And it is one of the thesis I'm very interested in in 2026. Okay. By the way,
 these two things, the first category of an expansion of on-chain lending to fixed rate and
 credit and long tail and equity perps, are you saying when you're listing these category ideas
 in the theme of DeFi? Are these investable to you? Is this coming from net new startups?
 Or to what extent are just the existing incumbents of the world going to capture all of this?
 Does Aave expand into fixed rate? Does Robinhood expand into equity perps?
 Or is this investable as a net new category for some new low valuation startups to become unicorns?
 Yeah, it's a great question. I would say these two ideas are both investable. We're so early and
 the market size is so insanely large that there definitely is multiple upcoming players who I
 think will grab a lot of market share. What's the third? Yeah, so the third one is definitely
 going to be DeFi neo banks. It's something I'm very excited about, kind of from two areas.
 I think one, neo banks and emerging markets are going to be absolutely huge. And a big reason for
 that is these people in emerging markets, they want access to US dollars. They want access to
 tokenized treasuries. They want access to a number of these things. And not only that,
 DeFi or stablecoin native, neo banks, there is a regard there in the sense that if you want to
 implement certain products, you don't need licenses for them inherently. An example of this is
 Coinbase integrating the Morpholenn product. They're able to offer 5.63% APY to their users.
 That's pretty crazy. And DeFi neo banks can do that. And I think that presents a step
 function on lock over what exists today. What's the example of a DeFi neo bank? Is that like
 EtherFi always comes to mind for me where there's sort of smart contracts on chain protocol.
 But then they have this extension where you can get a Visa card that works in a lot of
 countries in the world. And that's kind of connected to your smart contract account.
 Is that what a DeFi neo bank is, that type of idea? Exactly. That's exactly what it is.
 I think EtherFi has nailed it, though they're definitely more so focused on primary markets.
 These are people in the US, mostly who are probably using EtherFi, which is awesome.
 But yes. But I think the true step function on lock is going to be mostly with folks in emerging
 markets because they desperately need these products. Emerging market neo banks, because we've
 kind of seen the neo bank trend already arrive inside of the crypto industry and well financed,
 financially served countries like the United States, like you said. So what you're saying is,
 this trend continues down into the developing country part of the globe. Is that right?
 Absolutely. And I actually think that's where the biggest outcomes are going to be. You look
 at new bank, that's like a hundred billion dollar company. And they're serving mostly users in the
 lat tam region. Neo banks, also the tam there is massive. So that's also why I think you're going
 to have not just one, but multiple emerging bank emerging markets, neo bank unicorns.
 Because you can cater to specific audience types. You can cater to emerging market gig workers.
 You could target emerging market freelance workers. There's so many of these niches that sound like
 that's not really a venture scale outcome if you invest there. But definitely there is.
 When you look through history, we spent some time doing from 2017 up to today,
 2017 starting with the primitive of the ERC 20 token, which turned into the ICO mania.
 Then we layered on swap and collateralized and lend products and services on top of that in 2021.
 I think now we are looking at the neo bank era, which has some inherent amount of centralization
 to it. So maybe some listeners are throwing a flag about like, why is this in the DeFi category?
 But if you take all the puzzle pieces that we've created as an industry, this is ethereum becoming
 the bank account, the banking ledger, USCC tether, the stable coins being the private money building
 block. And now we are high enough up in the stack where we feel comfortable building
 fin techie layers on top of the ethereum ledger to send outwards into the developing markets
 into the rest of the world. So as we get further and further down these waves of DeFi, which is
 what we're talking about. We're in the DeFi category right now. We start to look higher and
 higher up the stack. And now we're at a pretty abstract layer of the stack. We're talking about
 the neo bank layer. So many layers below us already. And those were the waves that, you know,
 we said 2017 to 2021 to 2024 and five. And now it's bankless centers opinion that we are thinking
 about the neo banking layer as the investment focus for DeFi in 2029. That's not all of it,
 though. We also want to talk about specialized exchanges. Are not specialized exchanges. What
 do we mean by this? Yeah, absolutely. And I actually want to say one last thing on the neo bank point
 is I believe that DeFi neo banks are going to grow the DeFi mullet by like a hundred X today
 alone with, again, the Coinbase morpho integration in literally just a handful of months that drove
 the morpho base TVL from 700 million to about 3.3 billion. And that is only with borrowing
 USDC against your Bitcoin. They just announced the LEN product where you can actually earn a higher
 APY from your Coinbase account, like in September. Like I fully expect this to probably eclipse
 over 10 billion by the end of the year. And that is just one CFI integration. Now imagine everybody,
 every neo bank and emerging markets does this. I think it might be probably one of the biggest
 sources of capital inflows in 2026 and beyond. It's pretty incredible, Dave, because these are
 early bankless theses, right? It's like the whole money Lego thesis where we sort of build the base
 of all of these primitives and we kind of stack up the idea of the DeFi mullet as well, which is
 just, you know, FinTech in the front and DeFi in the back, the party. It's growing longer and longer.
 It's growing longer and longer. And now we have gravitated to the app layer. It's all coming
 together. The FinTech layer, the FinTech layer. That's right. And the user experience is incredible.
 I don't know if you've actually tried this use your Bitcoin as collateral for a loan on Coinbase.
 No, I'm doing everything the hard way, man. I don't like the second wave.
 I have friends that have no idea. I mean, they know that they can borrow and they've seen these
 other startups, BlockFi or whatever, they could lend you at 8%. And Coinbase is able to do it at
 5, 6, 7%. It's variable based on Morpho, but it all happens underneath the hood. And it's powered
 by Morpho, which is a prominent DeFi protocol and background. So pretty awesome.
 One of the big signs of maturity for this sector specifically is there's not a single
 blockchain reference inside of the Aave app. Aave app got released a dev connection not terribly
 long ago. You cannot find anything related to a blockchain. Obviously, there are tokens there,
 like USDC, but that's just not for the average user. That's just whatever. It's on a blockchain
 there. And so this kind of indicates the market readiness and technological readiness to actually
 deliver some of these promises through the FinTech layer that crypto, the promise that crypto made
 forever ago. All right. Let's polish off the DeFi section with specialized exchanges. What do we
 mean by this? So I think there's kind of two areas here with Spot and Perps. When I'm referring to
 Spot, I think one up and coming area that is relatively underexplored today is we're going to
 have specialized Spot exchanges. Exchanges meant for RWAs. Exchanges meant for long retail assets.
 Exchanges meant for FX markets. And even beyond that, exchanges that are more tailored for institutions.
 So things like on-chain KYC exchanges. I think an early rendition of this, even though it's in
 lending, is Aave Horizon, where borrowers actually have to KYC to borrow, but the lending side is
 completely permissionless. And then the Perps front, there's already a lot of Perps X is launching.
 We're kind of in this Perp X war at the moment, if you will. OSGM does a good job here differentiating
 because they're just offering Perps predominantly on traditional assets. But the thing I think is
 more interesting, not only with HIP-3, which HIP-3 is essentially this permissionless infrastructure
 where you can build on top of hyper liquids existing infrastructure. So you don't got to go
 spin up your own chain to launch new Perp X. You're just handling the front end. And what this gives
 way to is a lot more experimentation with more kinds of Perps. This could be Perps on funding
 rates. This could be Perps on emerging markets. This could be Perps using Athena's SUSDE as collateral.
 It's kind of like an infinite design space. So I'm very excited for that on the Perps front as well.
 Perp anything. Perp everything. Perpification. Perpification.
 There is space as well in DeFi on our view think for the fifth thing, which is actually options
 on Jane. So Perps aren't going to purify everything. We still have a need for options. Talk about this.
 Absolutely. I think going back to the statistic I referenced earlier, the US option market,
 options market alone does about three to four trillion dollars in notional a day.
 It's also from a retail perspective. It makes up a pretty healthy amount of Robinhood's revenue.
 And I think there's no reason why on chain options that deliver 24/7 experience
 can't do something big. So if you think about why hyper liquid was so successful,
 ultimately even though Perps existed before, they did two things really, really well.
 And I think one is they aggregated liquidity properly and they have a phenomenal UI UX.
 I think it's very probable that options maybe this year or next year could have their hyper liquid
 moment. So that's the last I would say DeFi I'm excited about.
 Arnav, to what extent are we thinking that across these categories, returns to the question,
 like net new investments and net new startups versus a lot of what you said,
 the DeFi mullet stuff, et cetera, that makes me very bullish on existing protocols that are
 out there. Something like a morso or a Pendle or even an Ave. And that seems like that could be
 investable surface area. But I know we're VC companies so we focus on the net new things.
 To what extent do you think there's new players in all of this game versus it just goes to the last
 wave's success stories? It's actually it's a very deep question because when you think about it,
 something that surprised me a lot of this last cycle was I thought a lot of liquidity would have
 left Ave intuitively. Ave just kept growing and growing and growing and they haven't inherently
 innovated on the core product. It just shows you that Ave 3, like people really care about that
 lindiness, that brand, that trust. So is it hard for another lending market to come in and offer
 some better feature set and aggregate a bunch of liquidity? Absolutely. That's very difficult.
 Whereas in perps, it's a lot easier. So I think it depends kind of on who your end user is,
 what their preferences are. But I guess to answer your question more directly, I think there's kind
 of two phases here. One is I think you could argue that certain DeFi tokens that exist today,
 whether it's Pando, Ina, Ave, Morpho, there's an argument to me made they could just get infinitely
 bigger. I think that world exists. On the other front, you could have people innovating at more
 of the cutting edge of each of these areas, right? A good example is Ave is not going to
 innovate very high on the risk curve for RWA lending. There is opportunity for somebody else
 to do that. So I would say there's a lot of edge cases. Let's talk about the second theme,
 which is tokenization. So the first theme was DeFi, the second is tokenization. A brief history
 of tokenization. Again, it follows the Wave 1, Wave 2, Wave 3 thing. In Wave 1, we had proof
 of concept tokenization for stable coins. Do you guys remember the days when Tether was,
 this was even pre-etherium 2016 or so? It was on Bitcoin. The original Tether implementation was
 on Bitcoin's Omni layer. You guys remember this? Weird Bitcoin sidechain thing. It wasn't even
 a real blockchain. All right. So that was the original kind of Tether. This was the Wave 1. Wave 2,
 we actually saw stable coins being used in DeFi for the first time. So previously,
 Tether was a mechanism for Bitfinex and other exchanges, like Binance and Centralized Exchanges.
 Wave 2 2021, we actually saw stable coin being used in DeFi to a large extent.
 And then, Wave 3, we got all sorts of activity happening in tokenization and stable coins. So
 stable coins got the Genius Bill. Of course, we have dollars. That is going to a trillion.
 And then we had this wave of generalized issuers. We had securitize and centrifuge and super-state
 BlackRock's Biddle Fund. A lot of progress in this third wave as basically tokenization
 became legal? I don't know. Before it was in this gray zone and now it's like illegal?
 Even before it became legal, we had generalized issuers positioning themselves.
 Yes, we did. Yes, we did. And not only is it legal now, it is being pushed and promoted.
 Yes, encouraged. The biggest issuers on the planet.
 What's a bit bigger issuer than the Secretary of Treasury of the US government?
 Okay. Secretary Besson is an issuer of stable coins now. How big is that? It's gotten big.
 And then second to him is probably BlackRock and Larry Fink. And we just saw this week, David.
 He wrote an entire love letter to tokenization in the Economist and published that.
 Exactly what it was. He is all in. He loves this stuff.
 Okay. So that's where we are ending Wave 3. But the question is, what is left that's
 investable, aren't we? We solve some problems with tokenization. You mentioned that we still
 don't quite have all of the assets in crypto that we want to have. What are you seeing when
 you look at what's investable in tokenization and where we go from here?
 Totally. I think before going into a few of the categories, I'm super excited about.
 I think two things kind of stand out as far as problems we have today.
 One is lack of very clear investor rights. So I think this was made very clear during
 the tokenized stock saga. People were like, hey, what do I actually get when I have this
 tokenized Tesla stock? Is it real Tesla stock? Is it mirrored? Is it like in an SPV?
 And there's a lot of questions, right? What happens? Do you get voting rights?
 Do you get access to a dividend? Is it in a bankruptcy remote structure?
 And in the case of pre-IPO tokenization, that's even more significant.
 And I think a lack of clear regulation, which I think the Clarity Act will help this as well,
 issuers have to jump through a lot of hoops. And this really hurts the end consumer,
 who is just purchasing these things and doesn't know the actual risks behind them.
 I would say the second key problem with RWAs today is lack of redemption ability.
 And this kind of lies into this broader problem of the fact that RWAs, the ones that aren't as
 native on chain, like Athena is an RWAs, that's very native on chain, or is a tokenized asset
 that's very native on chain. Whereas something like Paxos Gold, you're still reliant on the T+2,
 T+3, Trad-Fi, settlement rails, right? So a great example of this is during the 10/10 drawdown,
 Paxos Gold, which was fully back the entire time, the spot price went from $4,000 and it almost
 de-pegged to $3,600. No way, I do even know that. Yeah, crazy, right? And Paxos is like a hallmark
 issuer. They're not a random issuer. And this is not inherently Paxos' fault, let me clarify.
 And the Purbs price actually went all the way down to $3,000. When 10/10 happened,
 basically all the market makers, they pulled the liquidity from Binance. And basically,
 people just started getting liquidated, then they started selling spot and it just created this
 downward spiral. And of course, during this whole time, the gold was always backed one-to-one,
 yet the price was a split at $4,000 and $3,600. Wow. And the actual price of gold never really
 changed from that $4,000. But on-chain prices of that had fluctuated by 25 plus percent.
 Exactly. And to sum this out, the reason why this happened is because we're reliant on
 trad-fi rails. So what would have happened normally, let's say if it was T-bills, because
 that's an easier example, if the price de-pegged, you have arbitrageers who will purchase the spot
 asset on-chain and then they'll redeem it and they will earn a spread on that. But the problem
 with gold is you can't just redeem gold very easily, right? Those are sitting in vaults in London,
 I'm in the case of Paxos. So even though this price was really just going down and down and down,
 no arbitrageers could come in and basically restore the peg. So that's a longer way of saying that
 with real-world assets, there are a new set of risks. We are still dependent on a lot of these
 archaic settlement rails and we have to figure out ways around this, basically.
 I love the notion, well, I don't love it, but I love the notion that the archaic, broken,
 antiquated nature of trad-fi is a risk to defy. Like all of our tokenized assets on-chain,
 like one of the risks that liquidity managers around Aave, one of the risks they have is that
 there's two days of settlement before anything moves and changes hands before we can get liquidity
 on-chain if there's a significant market dislocation. But I would suppose that those
 risks are only temporary because the idea here is that this is a problem that a startup can solve
 is kind of like what we are pointing to. Temporary but not completely solvable by tokenization.
 Like tokenization enables it, but if you're still dealing with a physical asset that you
 need to drive down and inspect, it's like, I mean, you guys know tokenizing a house or real estate.
 Eventually it will happen, but if you own that house that's represented as an NFT and the house
 burns down, like maybe there's a period of time that somebody doesn't know the house is burned down,
 but the NFT still has value or whatever. So that the tokenization is one enabler,
 but it doesn't solve all the issues. So where does this leave us in terms of
 way for investable opportunities for tokenization? I think there's two really distinct ones that
 stand out in tokenization. The first one is tokenizing latent markets. And I think this one is relatively
 obvious to us in crypto. Obviously on one side of the spectrum here, you have things that are very
 easy to tokenize that are very low left, things like treasuries. On the farther side of the spectrum,
 you have things like tokenize hedge funds, right? And in the middle, there's a lot of really cool
 things that can be tokenized, things like Pokemon cards to tokenize solar to tokenize receivables.
 My thesis is that the tokenized assets or the RWAs that will gain a lot of traction are the ones that
 A, bring a material amount of exogenous yield on chain that just have good yield,
 and then B, there's like genuine consumer interest in that area. So a very good example of that in
 action today is USD AI. They're tokenizing data centers for AI, and they're tokenizing those cash
 flows. And they are distributing that on chain in the form of a synthetic dollar. And their growth
 has been like pretty monstrous recently. So I think we'll continue to see this trend of tokenizing
 latent markets, one way or the other. And the composability of DeFi, again, with all of these
 things, a lot of these tokenization is one thing, but people have had access to private credit and
 other assets like that. But now with DeFi, you can use it as collateral, you can loop it,
 you can borrow against it, all of these sorts of things that the composability of DeFi enables.
 Absolutely. I could see why Larry's excited about all this.
 You said there were two Arnoff, what's the second? Yeah, the second one is verticalized tokenization
 platforms. This one's a little bit of an interesting one as far as I haven't heard anybody talk about
 this or frame it this way. But verticalized tokenization platforms are essentially platforms
 that effectively handle the entire value chain from the end consumer, which is actually the borrower
 to the end investor, which is the lender. And the whole purpose of these platforms is to drive
 the marginal cost of lending to zero, basically eliminate all of the costs imposed by tradFi.
 So a good example of this is figure for home equity line of credit. But the thing with them is
 they're not actually doing a lot of this on chain, they have their own blockchain, and it's a whole
 thing. But I do believe things like figure will come onto Ethereum, will come onto Solana, like
 actual open composable ecosystems. And the reason why this is really significant is there's kind
 of two key reasons why I think verticalized tokenization platforms will be huge in the coming years.
 The first is that they serve as this unified ledger for data and value, and that drastically
 reduces costs of reconciliation and time and effort. And as far as the costs that are imposed
 in tradFi for a similar business, it's absolutely insane from a margins perspective.
 And then the second piece is that it allows for on-chain capital formation. So if you want to fund,
 let's just say auto loans, right, and you're securitizing these auto loans, rather than going
 to a debt facility off chain that's maybe offering you 5.5%, you can instead go to DeFi where somebody
 might just borrow against their Bitcoin at a 4.5% USDC rate and source capital from there.
 And the last thing I'd mention on this front is again, I think you'll have a lot of these products
 that are offered in neo banks or exchanges in the future. So I'm very, very bullish on this
 subcategory. Verticalized tokenization platforms. I do want to dive a little bit more into this
 because this one's pretty exciting to me. Maybe just to give listeners a little bit more of a
 grasp for what we're even talking about. We've verticalized stands in contrast to generalized
 and generalized. This is the securitizes, the centrifuges, superstates, the Black Rocks,
 the people who maybe not Black Rocks, the people who are like, come to us and we will tokenize your
 asset on your behalf. Do you have an asset for us to tokenize? We'll tokenize it for you.
 And they're kind of like a white glove service provider to do your tokenization needs.
 In contrast to that verticalized is a company that tokenizes one specific line of assets,
 one specific asset category. And there's data and just baggage and compliance and CRNs as it relates
 to that one machine probably. Yeah, just like all of the baggage it takes to just tokenize this one
 vertical. But now this one vertical is owned by this verticalized tokenization platform. And so
 we could go and point that towards a specific more narrow asset class. And that one asset class
 could be in theory owned by a company that we would like to invest in as something that owns
 an entire vertical. Maybe that's a little different way to articulate and illustrate exactly what
 we're going after. What kind of assets, what kind of assets classes are now? Do you think would be
 most interesting for a verticalized tokenization platform to go after?
 Yeah, it's a great question. I think there's a few areas where VTPs could really have an impact.
 And it really is extensible to almost anything. I believe there's a few areas where it's better
 versus not. It could be auto loans, it could be solar loans, it could be BNPL receivables.
 All of these areas could receive a crazy crazy cost benefit by moving basically everything on chain,
 not only from the operational side, but also from the cap formation side.
 Mantle has launched a global hackathon until the end of 2025. The focus is on building the
 future of real world assets. From now until December 31st, Mantle is inviting developers,
 founders, and innovators around the world to design and launch new real world asset and
 DeFi products on Mantle. The reason to build here is simple. Mantle is not just another blockchain.
 It is an ecosystem built for builders who want real distribution and real users. Projects on
 Mantle have access to tap directly into Bybit, one of the largest exchanges globally, giving
 teams exposure to more than 70 million verified users and potential listings through Bybit launch
 pad and launch pool. The Mantle ecosystem is backed by a $4 billion treasury that supports
 growth with grants, liquidity, and venture investment. And all of it runs on a modular
 Ethereum layer two stack that delivers high performance, low fees, and full EVM compatibility.
 The hackathon features $150,000 in prizes plus grants, incubation, and direct access to top VCs
 across six tracks, including real world assets, DeFi, AI, ZK, infrastructure, and gaming.
 If you're ready to build where real world finance meets on chain innovation, join the Mantle Global
 Hackathon at mantlenetwork.io/hackathon or click the link in the show notes for more information.
 Crypto is risky. Your sleep shouldn't be. Eight sleeps mission is simple. Better sleep through
 cutting edge technology. Their new Pod 5 is a smart mattress cover that fits on the top of
 your bed. It automatically adjusts the temperature on each side so you and your partner can both
 sleep the way that you like. It's clinically proven to give you up to one extra hour of
 quality sleep per night. Eight sleeps Pod 5 uses AI to learn your sleep patterns,
 regulate temperature, reduce snoring, and track key health metrics like HRV and breathing.
 With a new full-body temperature regulating blanket and built-in speaker is the most complete sleep
 upgrade yet. Upgrade your sleep and recovery with ACE sleep. Use code bankless at eightsleep.com/bankless
 to get up to $400 off the Pod 5 Ultra during their holiday sale. That's eightsleep.com/bankless.
 You also get 30 days to try it risk-free. Link in the show notes for more information.
 Well, since you mentioned cap formation, I think that's the third theme that we want to investigate
 and once again, every single wave cap formation has been important for crypto. It's something
 that we consistently find new ways to do. In the beginning, wave one, there was the Ethereum ICO,
 which was one of the original cap formation moments. You guys remember that that increased
 until 2016-2017 ICO bubble. We had massive ICOs like Auger in the early simple days and basic
 attention token. People remember Bat in the Brave browser and then it culminated with EOS,
 which was an ICO in June 26, 2017, blasted for roughly a year and ballpark of $4 billion raised,
 which was absolutely monumental, particularly at the time. We discovered that we can raise
 money in internet capital markets natively and we did a lot of that on projects that weren't
 worthwhile in a lot of cases and some that were. Wave two, we had a different form of capital
 formation. Saw that mainly in the form of NFTs, because ICOs were basically regulatory gray zone
 or dark zone, couldn't touch those anymore and so capital formation took the form of,
 "Hey, we're doing an NFT platform," digital items. You guys remember Board Apes. You guys
 remember Sandbox. You remember the digital real estate into Centralland. That was a new form of
 this. We also saw early D-pin type of experiments, which is like raised capital to actually fund
 real world infrastructure, physical infrastructure. Then we started to see some investor ICO,
 accredited investor, more regulatory friendly mechanisms like CoinList. Wave three. 2025,
 this extended. We got some new innovation. There's a pretty cool prototype. I call it a prototype.
 It's like early phase application called Metadow. We did an episode, bankless episode with them,
 and this is the idea of, "Can we incorporate greater investor protection inside of a
 crypto-native capital raise?" We've also seen on the retail front Echo Sonar, acquired by Coinbase,
 and so there's an ICO platform. We've really seen a resurgence of ICOs. Recently, too, we've got
 some crypto-native ICOs like the Aztec ICO that's ongoing with ZK Passport. It feels like we're
 still in the early phases of this. Once again, it's become less gray market and there seems to be a
 path to compliant ICOs that actually work, but there still seem to be some big problems.
 So in the capital formation trend, what are we looking at going into this fourth wave?
 I'll start with a few of the things that I think are existing issues. I think the first is,
 we still have this lack of investor protections problem, which is what Metadow is trying to solve,
 but we end up with this market full of lemons type of issue. I think this was really portrayed by
 whether it's recent token launch pads, believe or heaven decks. This also leads into this adverse
 selection problem, which is only poorer projects raised from the token launch pads when the good
 ones raised from the VCs. We almost want to figure out, "Okay, how do we close that gap?"
 The other issue related is, "How do projects attribute value to their token without explicitly
 breaking securities laws?" The more that we can get closer to this than just buybacks,
 the better. A few unlocks, though, I think are going to be massive. We are receiving regulatory
 clarity from a number of fronts. I think one big thing is that the Howie test is super outdated
 and it just shouldn't be retrofitted for digital assets. I think that will be changed sooner than
 later. The other thing, which has been massive this past year, is I think there's been this new
 social consensus around how important transparency is, transparency around market makers, transparency
 around token launches, around treasury. I think there's been a number of strides in this direction,
 one of them being the block works, token transparency framework, and a number of other related things
 here like coin glass and so forth. The very last thing, which is a huge unlock, is there's been
 great experiments this cycle so far. Metadow Futarkey is obviously the notable one. I think
 Doppler is building some phenomenal mechanisms for on-chain price discovery. I think you have
 things like ERCS tokens by street foundation that provide a framework to attribute value to tokens,
 so I'm excited about all of these things. Those things are excited, but yet they're not yet scaled
 up to the level that we'd like to see them for internet capital markets to be like a primary or
 the primary capital formation tool that the world uses. What kind of things are we looking at investing
 in going into 2026? I think it's a handful of areas. The most obvious to me is going to be
 compliant ICOs or ICOs broadly. I think we will have a new gen of ICOs that are unlike what we've
 had in the past, where these are real companies trying to do real things, and we'll have the actual
 cap formation mechanisms to do it. The second thing, which I think is going to be really interesting,
 which is somewhat related to that, and this is a little bit contrarian. I don't think it's crazy
 that small and mid-market enterprises might actually start issuing stock on-chain natively
 and raising USDC, and actually deploying that in the lending markets or just broadly on-chain.
 It's a little bit wild, but why not? There is a long tail of businesses out there that need
 financing that can't receive it, and there's a way that this can be done on-chain in a curated
 manner, mind you. You think that happens with smaller businesses?
 First, before some of the large enterprises? I think it's TBD how it happens. I think
 it's likely large enterprises do it first, and I actually know a few that are going to do it,
 but I don't think it's crazy again that maybe a carwash business that has been around for five
 years, why can't they raise capital on-chain in the right format? I think that's what internet
 capital markets is supposed to be. How close are we to a world where Elon Musk's next company
 is rather than going through the traditional investment bank process of capital formation
 in the US? It's actually natively raises on-chain. Is that a way for thing, or is that like a
 five, six? We have to wait a decade for that. It's a little bit farther out, but I would say
 there's a world in which a Decacorn unicorn, a Decacorn crypto company decides instead of IPOing,
 they're going to go do what they're doing on-chain instead. We've been practicing for this. Crypto
 does capital formation very well, and these initial Phase 1 ICOs were effectively an IPO on-chain
 without the arduous IPO process. As we add more clarity around regulations and disclosures,
 but not quite to the Phase that's necessary for a traditional IPO, and then removing the barriers
 to actually owning these things, then it becomes a lot more feasible to actually issue a stock
 on-chain. It especially becomes pretty obvious that this is going to be a thing when we piece
 some of the other puzzle pieces that we've already discussed together, mainly the neo-banking thing.
 Say every person in a developing country gets on-chain with Ethereum, with stablecoins,
 with a neo-bank. Then, all of a sudden, the internet capital markets is just one single button
 press away from some user's neo-bank to some capital formation activity, because some company
 is raising a small, medium amount of funds, but most more people on the internet have access to
 stablecoins in 2028 than they had in 2024. All of a sudden, the possible investor base is just so
 much larger simply because some of the other puzzle pieces that we've talked about so far in
 this episode have grown to be much more mature. That's one of the themes of perhaps what next wave
 four and five look like is really a lot of the network effects of crypto really start to pay
 dividends in on itself as crypto hopefully takes over the world. The last thing I wanted to mention
 about theme three and CAD formation is that especially for crypto-native projects, at least in the
 near term, probably the most exciting thing to me is the entire capital stack is now on-chain.
 You don't have to actually go to the centralized exchanges, give a huge percent of your token
 supply, and pay these exorbitant fees for that distribution. There is a lot more distribution
 on-chain today, and we have the entire capital stack to support you. This effectively takes away
 power from these centralized exchange listing committees and moves it back on-chain,
 which is really exciting. I think Hyperlicate was the first really big thing there, and a lot of
 these Medadow projects are also headed in that direction, but I think we will see this more and
 more in the future. A lot of these really hallmark projects will not list on centralized exchanges.
 Rather, they will just do what they need to do on-chain because they can, and we're going to have the
 infrastructure and the discovery mechanisms and the DEX microstructure to go and do that.
 And the last thing I'd mention on that front is we're seeing early renditions of this. I think
 Pump was somewhat of a good example in that if you look at the pre-market perps open interest,
 it was actually significantly higher on Hyperliquid than it was on Binance. That effectively made
 Hyperliquid the venue of price discovery. We've seen this also for the Mega-Eath
 launch and for the Monad pre-IPO launch. I think it's just an early indication that the entire stack
 could absolutely move on-chain, and you don't need to go to the centralized venues. The very
 last thing I'll say on this point is that it's very true that centralized exchanges have been
 the biggest winner in crypto to date. They make the most revenue, they have the best economics,
 so the more that we can move on-chain and internalize those economics, the better it is for everybody.
 All right, let's get into the last theme. The theme that has always persisted in crypto that
 everyone is a participant in whether they like it or not, speculation and speculation markets.
 Now, we've already talked about ICOs all the way back in the beginning of 2017, but interestingly,
 it's not just ICOs, which was the activity of people's speculation, but Auger, the world's first
 prediction market, came online in 2017. If tea marketplaces like OpenSea and play to earn
 ecosystems like Axie, and then also later another prediction market like Polymarket,
 these are all turned into venues of speculation, and speculation is increasingly in
 newer and younger generations as they become financially savvy and financially literate.
 The most recent iteration of this, probably the points meta starting with blur meme coins on pump
 fun, but now I think we are getting into the professional and polished and at least decently
 useful version of speculation, which isn't the form factor of prediction markets in Polymarket
 and Colshey. This is kind of the background of speculation. It's inherent to crypto.
 Everyone's kind of speculating more or less. Sometimes it's actually somewhat useful.
 Arnav, before we get into some of the problems that we still have and what the current
 market environment is like, what do you want to say about just the nature of speculation markets
 as it relates to investing as a VC? Yeah, so the reason why I think speculation markets are
 going to grow like 100x in the coming years is in one sentence is financial nihilism.
 I think we've seen this really strong lack of opportunity in the job market, lack of wage growth,
 insane asset prices, inflation, especially young folks feel very financially boxed out,
 and speculation becomes that conduit that it feels like the only path to upward mobility
 financially. This thesis has very clearly fleshed out in traditional markets. A good example of this
 is over the last three years, sports betting is up 25% year over year in the US alone, and over $150
 billion was wagered last year. Growth in parlays, which is leverage sports betting, is even higher
 than that. What's crazy is this is by and large dominated by the sub-25-year-old crowd.
 That's one interesting trend. The other interesting trend is how this is proliferating. At the same time,
 you would think that things like lottery sales, in-person casino gambling, these things are growing
 as well. These things are actually decreasing. The last thing I want to mention on this is it's
 this thesis of something called intellectual speculation, which is a way to actually reason
 about what might be popular in crypto next. It's essentially this thesis of risk-taking or justify
 this risk-taking behavior. You do it only where you feel like you have an edge. Crypto is phenomenal
 manufacturing these games where people feel like they have an edge. They feel like they have an edge
 in ICOs, NFTs, Perps, prediction markets, meme coins, and whatever is next. People do not feel
 like they have an edge when they buy a lottery ticket. That's why the type of gambling where
 people feel like they have an edge is growing exponentially, driven by financial nihilism,
 whereas the trad forms of gambling are actually dying, and crypto actually shines because of this
 thesis. I do think you're right, Arnav, that much of this is driven by financial nihilism.
 Not to say that speculation doesn't have a good side, though, and a healthier side. Speculation
 is kind of knowledge discovery, isn't it? It's price discovery. It's hard in the early phases,
 almost to separate investing early stage and speculation, like what, indeed, are the differences.
 But it is true that crypto has increased the tendency to create speculation markets over
 just about everything. We've seen one of the manifestations of that. It's like there's
 prediction markets for just about everything. What is the problem right now that we have to solve
 with speculation markets and what things are we looking to invest in this theme going to wait for?
 One way to tie back to what I said previously is not all of these things are zero-sum.
 I think the first iteration of ICOs and NFTs and even meme coins to a great extent are very
 zero-sum. I think prediction markets are phenomenal. I think the decentralized
 truth machine thesis is very real. I don't think perps are zero-sum. I think the next iteration
 of ICOs also will not be zero-sum and actually very value-creative. I'm very excited about
 those things. Not everything is nihilistic at all. That being said, going into things that I am
 really excited about. We already have Colshin-Pauling Market, which have really popularized the
 prediction markets base. I'm not super bullish on people trying to compete directly with those
 incumbents now, but there are a lot of alternative markets which are very interesting that are kind
 of one degree away from prediction markets. Precision markets, consensus markets,
 opinion markets. A good example of an opinion market is you're able to bet with leverage on
 who would win one gorilla versus 100 men. I think that's a very cool thing to speculate on.
 That's definitely one area I'm very bullish on. You gave out a handful of these things with
 markets appended to them, opinion consensus, precision markets. These are all subjective
 opinion, wisdom of the crowd type of constructions, different market mechanisms that all leverage
 some nature of wisdom of the crowd, where I think with Pauli Market and Colshy, there is a binary
 outcome with a real-world event, but these things are even more subjective and starting to become
 a little bit more maybe even nebulous and sci-fi than the prediction markets. What else is worth
 saying about some of these neo-prediction markets, opinion markets? I would say, if you're looking
 to invest in this category, one thing that you actually have to really ask yourself is, can these
 things attract liquidity or not? It's very difficult to do that, because even though Pauli Market is
 monstrous and has had a billion-plus eyeballs on it and has raised $2 billion from basically the
 New York Stock Exchange, the OI is still quite low. It's around $250 million. On most markets,
 you can't really trade them because the spreads are so wide. You, as an emerging market, doing new
 stuff, have to make sure that whatever I'm building can actually attract liquidity so that we traders
 can trade it. The reason why I think this category is so exciting, and you start to see it in Pauli
 Market and prediction markets generally, is financial markets are starting to distort time,
 which I think is really cool. We're looking forwards into the future. When prediction markets
 predict Donald Trump's presidency just a few hours ahead of mainstream media that illustrates
 something with the nature of time. We are moving faster and we are able to look forward in time
 even more. When I see more interesting experimental frontier constructions of these same kind of
 things, like opinion and consensus markets, trying to categorize and order people's opinions or people's
 thoughts about the future, I start to get really excited because it's one of the most sci-fi
 constructions of a marketplace that I think is possible, where one outcome of this is the future,
 whether that's just hours or days or weeks, not even that long, but just becomes more tangible
 to society through markets and data and content through these market mechanisms. The future seems
 like it arrives a little bit sooner or is a little bit more predictable or very nebulous
 truth is that we would have never been able to discover before, all become much more closer to
 society's grasp, which is why I'm particularly excited about this category. Absolutely.
 Arnav, do you have any predictions? Every cycle we've seen a breakout of some sort of
 speculation market. ICOs, Wave 1, NFTs, Wave 2, Wave 3, it's been meme coins. What's the next
 meme coin? What's the Wave 4 thing that's really going to break out here?
 If I were to break it down into one new thing that I think will break out,
 I think it's going to be some rendition of an opinion market. I think there's a lot of
 virality built in to betting on crazy topics that are very timely and it can draw a lot of attention.
 I think one team is definitely going to nail this and it will be a pretty large outcome.
 Interesting. I have so many questions still about opinion markets and similar to David,
 like how do they resolve? Who decides if it's an opinion? The oracle problem of can these things
 be manipulated or influenced? I'm sure whatever team comes up with the unicorn idea here is going
 to have to contend with all of those things. It is a super interesting and complex design space
 and to sum it up into one sentence is that traders need to have confidence about the resolution,
 for sure, and that is the hardest problem with anything that does not have an intrinsic spot market
 pretty much. Okay, those are the four themes. I think we've covered them. One thing that's been
 noticeably absent here though, and I want you to weigh in on this maybe in a second is we haven't
 talked about AI once and yet everybody, the whole world is talking about AI. I guess if I were to
 maybe frame this out in terms of how I think about it so far in crypto across all of these
 different waves, we've had one primary user, one primary player, I guess, and then has been
 the human being or groups of human beings and you get institutions. These have been the crypto
 natives, even on bank list, we talk, this is podcast for crypto natives, we're talking to humans out
 there. Now we have AI agents who have increasingly human-like capabilities, let's say, and those
 capabilities are increasing at a fast rate, it almost feels like a new player has entered the chat
 or is about to enter the chat. We've seen simple renditions of AI agents, of course, in the form
 of bots and we've had bots with us since like the very early days of the internet, but AI agents
 with some sort of human level reasoning, that feels like something new and it feels like the
 programmable money platform that we have created is incredibly native to an AI agent, right? We said,
 how does an AI agent get a bank account? Well, they can't go to a bank and say, please, you know,
 can I deposit money here? It's going to be quite clearly on crypto rails. How do AI agents as a new
 player entering the chat, you know, shake up all of these ideas across the themes that we've
 talked about and like what's investable in, I don't know if I'll call it crypto AI, because
 it's more like the AI agent, the presence of AI agents in crypto, what's investable there?
 Yeah, it's a great question. I think I'll break down like the areas of crypto, AI that exists
 first, and then I'll share what I think is investable. So you have the decentralized compute inference,
 training, data aggregation that's been there for a little while. These are things like your bit
 tensor subnets and, you know, as a proliferation of that, you have things like verifiable compute,
 ZKML and all that. We also recently had the AI agent meta, things like AI XBT and virtuals,
 and basically these just probably these automated Twitter agents, right? Not so bullish on these
 areas as investment opportunities, though I do think there could be growth. The two areas where
 I really see asymmetric outcomes as far as an investment opportunity, I think the first one,
 even though it's a little bit abstract as to how, but X402 is going to be massive. So for those who
 don't know, X402 is essentially a virtual payment standard allowing agents to transact using stable
 coins, right? And I think you could argue that X402 could become the substrate to pay for all
 web resources, agent to agent or developer to X resource. The second area which I'm very bullish
 on related to AI are AI agent asset managers. The reality is humans weren't designed to manage
 risk on these 24/7 markets and AI agents can do that at scale. They can manage liquidity risks,
 they can manage smart contract risks, de-pegging risks. And I think just generally speaking,
 we will have a proliferation of AI agents that know how to manage risk and can act in DeFi
 broadly. Very cool. Exciting times ahead. So AI agents having a big effect on the space is
 something we're all anticipating looking forward to. I guess as we zoom out to maybe Ben, I want to
 ask you a question because getting the themes right is important and predicting how the world
 will look in 2027, 2028 is maybe half the battle. But the other half of the battle is investing in
 the teams that can execute the vision. So there's the idea and then there's execution. For that,
 you need founders who can ship, who can build, who can deliver, who have the durability. Can you
 talk about that across all of these various themes when you look at the founders that are
 going to succeed here? What specifically do you look at? What are the characteristics?
 Yeah. I mean, I think we are now did a great job of going in deep on a lot of these themes,
 but as you have seen, they're the themes that have been persistent across the different cycles.
 And that's why I think it was helpful to go through the history of each one. But for us,
 especially at Bankless Ventures, the big thing is staying agile. These are areas that we think
 are very interesting and exciting. But ultimately, we're just laser focused on backing the strongest
 founders at the earlier stage. They might end up pivoting. So it's really over indexing on the
 founder itself and not getting so enamored by the idea that we forget to really get to know that
 founder and what makes them tick with crypto, especially as we're talking through this, it highlights
 the short-termism or short-term nature of a lot of these different cycles or waves.
 But for us, just really focusing on not where we can win over the next three to six months,
 where everybody is talking about it, but where we can back these durable founders over the next
 three to six years. So that's another through line with all of these, even though we're talking
 about these themes, is really staying laser focused on the founders themselves.
 All right, guys, this has been great. Ben Arnoff, your guys' first time on Bankless. Thank you
 guys for coming on. I think there's a pretty cool opportunity to give some of the listeners
 how we think as a VC. And even though these are the same four themes that our listeners are already
 very familiar with, especially the ones that came all the way back in 2017 when some of these themes
 first emerged into 2021 to where we are now in 2025, ending 2025. I think this will be pretty
 illustrative of what we think these themes will continue to look like as we work higher up the
 stack. And I think the market opportunities gets larger, maybe more dispersed and proliferated. I
 think the more quantity of potential startups is going to be higher, especially just the sphere
 of influence of crypto gets larger and larger. But this is how we think as investors, investing
 in the same trends that we always have known. So I appreciate you guys coming on and sharing
 some of the insights that we've been working on over on the Bankless Ventures side of things.
 Thanks for having us on, David. Ryan, this is awesome. I've been listening to Pod for
 going on five years now long before David had a beard. So it's pretty full circle to be on here.
 Thanks, guys. This was great. If any of these categories interests you, you've got something
 to say about it, you are building in one of these categories, or you are interested in investing
 alongside Bankless Ventures. There are links in the show notes to do any and all of those things.
 Nonetheless, this has not been financial advice. These are our crypto theses for 2026 and beyond,
 not yours. Crypto is risky. You can lose what you put in, but we are head west. This is frontier.
 It's not for everyone, but we are glad you are with us on the Bankless Journey. Thanks a lot.
 [music]
