TITLE: Landmark Regulation, ICOs, Downtober & Privacy: 2025 Crypto Year in Review (Part 2)
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNSglz1UZQk
VIDEO_ID: bNSglz1UZQk

TRANSCRIPT:
So I think it was Kobe who said something, right?
 Like the road from like 100 to 125 will be the easy road.
 Then 125 to like 250 or that'll be the hard road.
 And then 125 to 250 will be the easy road.
 So I got, I got liquidated on gold.
 And that was like the only position I had to open.
 It's hilarious.
 I had, of course, naively had zero idea
 that I could get liquidated on three X on gold.
 Yeah, but honestly, it's really not ideal
 that Bitcoin can go down like that in 30 minutes.
 - Thread guy was hit by a big tax bill
 and was like stressing about it on the timeline.
 And literally the next day, all of a sudden we like see,
 maybe it wasn't the next day,
 but like within, you know, 48 hours,
 we see this huge surge in Zcash.
 Like am I wrong in thinking that there was a connection there
 or like was, was there or wasn't there?
 Hi, everyone.
 Welcome to Unchained.
 You know, hey, resource for all things crypto.
 I'm your host, Laura Shin.
 Thanks for joining this live stream,
 but just FYI that this was prerecorded.
 Before we get started, a quick reminder,
 nothing you hear on Unchained is investment advice.
 The show is for informational
 and entertainment purposes only.
 And my guests and I may hold assets discussed on the show.
 For more disclosures, visit UnchainedCrypto.com.
 - Are you a builder who needs to add on chain trading
 to your product?
 - The Uniswap Trading API from Uniswap Labs
 offers plug and play access
 to some of the deepest liquidity in crypto.
 It's on chain execution at an enterprise level,
 more liquidity, less complexity.
 Visit hub.uniswap.org to learn more.
 - Mantle is launching the Global Hackathon 2025
 to accelerate the future of real world assets
 with a $150,000 prize pool,
 backing from a $4 billion treasury
 and direct access to buy bits 7 million plus users.
 This is the ultimate ecosystem for builders.
 - Today's topic is 2025 Year in Review,
 part two, here to finish the discussion.
 Our gourd host of the gourd show
 and Doug Kolkitt, co-founder of FOGO
 and ambient finance.
 Welcome Doug and gourd.
 - Hey, thanks for having us back.
 Thank you for, yeah, round two, happy to be here.
 - Yeah, I'm excited to finish off
 the second half of the year
 because there was so much that happened.
 We're gonna start with the Genius Act,
 which was the first Sablecoin, sorry,
 the first crypto law that we have seen in the US.
 And there were a few interesting surprises in there.
 I think probably the main one that has continued
 to cause controversy and it's also, I think a sticking point
 in the negotiations of the crypto market structure bill
 is that there's a prohibition on stablecoin issuers
 directly handing the interest off to users.
 But anyway, what are your thoughts
 on what happened with the stablecoin law?
 - Well, I mean, I guess it kind of kicked off stablecoin season,
 which is somewhat unfortunate for alt markets
 because there aren't really many stablecoin tokens,
 or at least like tokens to trade.
 So yeah, I mean, a great, great for crypto adoption,
 but I think everyone kind of wanted something to pump.
 And there really wasn't much besides the circle equity.
 - What, XPL didn't perform well for you?
 - Oh, XPL, yeah, that's actually, yeah, XPL was,
 that was the stablecoin play for a while.
 - I mean, I think that project could do well,
 but yeah, like it's unfortunate.
 I mean, really, it feels like only hype.
 I'm sure there's at least a few others,
 like privacy did well this year, but like,
 it just feels like every token was,
 yeah, just down only, I don't know.
 - Bad year for tokens.
 - Court, what are your thoughts?
 - Well, I think it's,
 well, I'm not still like tuned into what actually happened
 with the whole genius act thing,
 but I do know what you're talking about with regards
 to not being able to pass along and yield,
 but I think there's a lot of workarounds with this, right?
 So they're trying to, I don't know what like rewards
 and depositing a slightly different contract
 and being able to pay out in another or something.
 So it is kind of interesting how like,
 there's, does seem to be with all of the regulation
 and everything that's going on.
 It definitely seems like there's some powerful people
 behind some of the decisions, which seems sort of,
 I don't know, like, you know, it doesn't seem intuitive
 why, you know, we shouldn't be able to just be directed,
 yield, if like, that is in many ways,
 part of the appeal of stable coins, I think,
 is that we can sort of like pass along
 that T-bills or whatever it may be in the background
 and like, you know, immediately this was sort of,
 so yeah, I think like the community banks were behind this
 and I think there's still a lot of work to do.
 It's sort of unfortunate, but that aspect was interesting.
 - I mean, I guess, maybe it's that the banks really feel
 like they need to pump the bags of circle and tether
 and that's what it boils down to.
 They're like, those companies, they're not wealthy enough,
 so yeah, they need to keep that interest.
 Okay, well-- - It's also a good
 full employment act for lawyers.
 Like, there are always the people
 who make up the most in crypto.
 - No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
 - So the lawyers are gonna be decimated by AI.
 - Everyone says that the, you know,
 we've been selling all the picks and shovels,
 but it's really the lawyers who are truly the ones
 selling the picks and shovels this whole time, right?
 - Yeah, they're just trying to make as much money as they can
 before AI comes and wipes them out.
 No offense to any lawyers listening to the show,
 but you know, I have been reading about
 what's gonna happen to the legal profession, so.
 Anyway, okay, another big event around the same time
 was the pump ICO, but this was so interesting
 'cause this happened at the same time
 that Let's Bank was, you know, trending
 and there was so much hype and then afterward
 there was so much disappointment.
 And anyway, I don't know.
 What did you think watching the whole thing?
 - It was interesting, there was like this narrative
 that like pump is, pump is like dead
 and like they're gonna replace it with other launch pads
 and it was like about for six weeks.
 And I mean, as far as I can die,
 I think like pumps kind of still dominant right now.
 - Yeah, but the volume has fallen off precipitous.
 - Yeah, no, 'cause the competition though, right?
 - No, no, you're right, like the whole bonk thing
 seemed like quite fabricated, although I am friends
 with quite a lot of those early bonk investors as well.
 So I don't wanna, I don't know the details.
 I think they definitely put on like kind of a PR campaign,
 you know, in conjunction with the pump ICO
 in order to, you know, compete right then and there.
 But the ICO was interesting.
 I don't think it was,
 I mean, it's kind of hilarious as it sounds.
 Like I think it was pretty decently well done
 in so far as they sold it directly to the public
 or, you know, there were avenues
 through which you could buy it publicly
 and there was sort of a uniform launch price.
 And they also launched an evaluation such that
 if you were a large liquid fund, right?
 You needed to deploy a sizable chunk at once.
 This was an opportunity to do so.
 Obviously it's like, since then it's been up and down.
 I mean, it went up quite a bit afterwards, right?
 Like thread guy was all, talking about how bullish he was
 and I think he sold the Pico top.
 Maybe he was the reason that--
 Along was kind of deranged.
 Yeah.
 Tweeting for a little bit and I was sending it.
 Yeah, I don't know exactly what's happening now though, you know?
 I don't know where I haven't heard about Paul.
 'Cause wait, didn't they sell it at 0.4 cents
 'cause now it's at 0.1419 cents.
 So it's less than half.
 Yeah, I mean, I remember that when Alon went on thread guy,
 he said multiple times to Alon something like,
 you have so much money, like you have an ungodly amount
 of money or like whatever the comments were.
 And I remember the like second or third comment like that,
 Alon didn't even like just respond and then thread guy,
 there was like a silence in front guy just--
 I'm like gonna dignify that with a responder.
 Didn't mention that again.
 I mean, it's interesting 'cause like unlike an IPO
 or like a company raises equity,
 they had no legal obligation to do anything
 with them, like they could take the money
 and just pay themselves and go home, right?
 It's just a token sale.
 But as far as I can tell, I don't think they have,
 but you know, like people were kind of trusting them a lot.
 Well, they did, he did like, you know,
 so the team initiated some buybacks, right?
 But they were sort of arbitrarily designed.
 So I think he was just, I say he, I mean,
 they, the team I suppose were, you know, buying in sort
 of sporadic amounts and at times,
 it wasn't sort of this algorithmic thing
 that, you know, we have with hype.
 And so, and also, again, it's not like so,
 there's two things.
 One, it's not so clear the value of launching a token
 and then making money and then buying back the token
 that you just issued, right?
 It's like a little bit of this circular thing
 where in the real world when there's like equity
 and there's, you know, proper revenue and then net income
 and then maybe you're doing share repurchases, like, you know,
 Apple, like all these companies do this on a regular basis.
 But when you just kind of create something out,
 like, you know, conjure or something.
 - They do, they do have earnings though.
 They don't do crazy.
 - Right, exactly.
 Well, that's what I'm saying.
 - And then go buybacks.
 - Exactly.
 Also, like the immediacy of it doesn't like necessarily
 lend itself well to like this sustainable flywheel
 whereby you like raise four billion
 and then you're making, I don't know, not four billion.
 No, nothing that, nothing that's even a reasonable,
 multiple of four billion, maybe at the peak of top,
 but not when it was done.
 And then you're kind of like buying back
 and brand of amounts.
 It's not, there's nothing that engenders like,
 oh, this is, you know, this is clearly the way
 to do financial engineering.
 But like to their defense or, I don't know, defense,
 but like to kind of be fair, the trenches have completely died.
 Right?
 Like the volume on, if you look at Solana,
 the volume is down over 90% from, you know, the Trump launch.
 And there was sort of that like euthanasia roller coaster.
 So I, they tried the streaming thing.
 I don't know how that's going.
 They were talking about, you know, creators and stuff.
 Like the whole market.
 I mean, we could talk about how Pump was this massive,
 you know, ICO and then a drift downwards,
 but like the whole market's done that, right?
 So like I am somewhat sympathetic toward anybody right now.
 It's like, no one is really in a premier spot.
 Like all these launches have been down only, right?
 So I don't know.
 And Pump does or did make money at one point, right?
 Like again, is that sustainable?
 I don't know.
 I think this will do like a million a day.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Yeah.
 So, I don't know who's still trading like Pump shitters,
 but like a lot of people are, right?
 Well, like all the, like now if a token hits,
 I mean, a token hits like a, you know, a million
 or a five million dollar market cap.
 Now it's like, that's the runner of the day.
 Whereas like, you know, six months ago,
 we had six to 12 months ago, we had coins, you know,
 running to 50, 100 million regularly.
 And, you know, at times billion, you know what I mean?
 So it's clear that the trenches in aggregate have been,
 you know, like it's been a prescribed fire almost.
 Yeah, there was this funny tweet out for the ICO
 where someone was like, wait,
 so we gave you money for the ICO,
 but then now you're using the money to buy the claims,
 like this whole like circular thing.
 And yeah, it is, it is basically a thing
 that they do on tradfi, but it's just funny.
 It's like, literally all we're doing is like moving money
 from one, you know, entity to another
 and then back and forth and back and forth.
 So, okay, well, the next big thing was
 that tempo caused quite a stir
 when it chose to become its own L1.
 And I shouldn't say it's like an entity.
 It's in itself, it's like stripe chose to make tempo an L1.
 And obviously this became, I think,
 it caused a bit of consternation,
 I would say, in the theory of worlds.
 But what were your thoughts on that?
 I mean, it's not, I mean, it's not clear,
 like obviously paradigm is all in on tempo.
 It's not clear to me how much stripe
 is all in on tempo or this is just one of many, many bets
 Stripe is taking.
 Like if you talk to a kind of random people at Stripe,
 some of them haven't even heard,
 like not if people worked on tempo, I would blockchain,
 but like, you know, random employees
 haven't really heard of tempo or at least happened
 like right after the announcement.
 So like, I don't, I don't know if this is like
 Stripe's big bet in crypto or is just Stripe
 as a giant company and paradigm kind of showed up
 and was like, oh, well, are you sure?
 Well, well.
 Well, it's just staying, I wasn't aware.
 I mean, Matt's on the border stripe.
 Oh, is, oh, okay, I'm pretty sure.
 Yeah.
 He has, he has.
 I mean, there's a long, long time connection there.
 So I think, I mean, obviously Stripe is involved in it.
 I just don't know if like, this is like Stripe is,
 I mean, they're doing stable coin payments
 on Solana and Ethereum too, right?
 Like, I understand.
 Well, it's like, okay, I'll be honest,
 it's like quite, it's not dissimilar
 from people saying Tether and Plasma,
 like like Plasma's Tether's chain.
 It's like Tether eats money at everything.
 I mean, Tether owns Rumble.
 Tether has invested in a gajillion random AI startups.
 Like it's quite similar, you know, you find a big name
 and then you sort of align in some capacity.
 I mean, I think the Stripe to tempo connection seems more,
 I don't want to say legitimate.
 I think of another word.
 It seems more truly, you know, like Tether--
 - Tether then, like, I just do the hard work.
 - Tempo doesn't take off, like a Stripe gonna put
 like all their resources into making a worker
 and they're gonna be like, oh fine,
 we're doing like payments on Solana or Ethereum
 or wherever, like it's fine, like Tempo is.
 - Yeah.
 - Yeah. - Interesting.
 Wait, okay, you, like you,
 'cause I mean, they're trying to make it
 this sort of consortium thing.
 Like it's basically, you know, I'm sure you saw the memes.
 It's basically like Libra or Diem all over again.
 But hopefully this time will actually happen.
 But yeah, so I feel like, yeah,
 even if they aren't in control of it at a certain point,
 like it would be that they get it afloat
 and then they step away.
 Not that they like abandon it and it goes nowhere.
 That's, I mean, who knows what will happen to it.
 - Yeah, but I mean, like there's just stuff
 with like how much their finger's on the scale, right?
 Like, you know, how much,
 how much are they gonna push like end users
 to go through tether versus if they're supporting,
 you know, alternate channels outside or not tether,
 tempo versus, you know, saying, okay,
 it's just like one usual option.
 Yeah.
 - Okay, yeah, by the way, you guys,
 like tether does have so much money
 that they offer to buy this soccer club in--
 - Yeah, it's Italian, yeah.
 - Which, yeah, I mean, good for them.
 All right, speaking of stablecoins,
 the next big controversy in crypto was the USDH competition,
 the hyper-liquid stablecoin, yeah, a competition,
 which wasn't a competition.
 It was, I don't know, so I'm gonna say something controversial,
 but I think most of us would probably agree on the deal
 that it was pre-ordained who it would be.
 Hopefully nobody will come attack me for saying that,
 but yeah, what did you think, watching that go down?
 - I mean, it's kind of like the old meme
 of the Dow governance forum where, you know,
 what color Ferrari does the founder get, and--
 - Yeah.
 - Vogue Rad, and then the founder says no yellow,
 and then everyone votes yellow, I mean,
 I think a lot of things on-chain governance are probably--
 - Yeah, but I think it's fine.
 I mean, it's probably necessary, right?
 - Yeah, yeah, and also, I don't know this for a fact,
 but I speculate that it was in some capacity pre-ordained.
 I mean, like, I don't even think there's anything nefarious
 in saying pre-ordained, like, they probably were just
 in close talks with hyper-liquid and tea and Jeff--
 - Right, but my thing is, like, if it was pre-ordained,
 then why not just say, hey, we're gonna launch
 our own stablecoin, we're gonna partner with, you know,
 native markets, blah, blah, blah, like why wouldn't, you know?
 - Well, I think they, okay, so I don't know, again,
 this is just conversations I've had,
 which is that I think that was the initial idea,
 and then once it was, you know, I think it was sort of under,
 so this was going to become the native stablecoin,
 and then it got, like, everybody wanted to be involved,
 and so you got all these teams vying,
 all these teams submitting proposals,
 and none of that was expected.
 Like, I don't think there was any assumption
 that there was gonna be a tremendous amount
 of hype to begin with, so it was gonna look more similar.
 - They put an announcement in the discord saying,
 like, we're gonna have this little competition, so.
 - But I think we also, maybe, regulatory stuff around that,
 like, you can't, if the team, like, just picks one,
 right, then it's potentially, like, too much control
 over the network versus if you have an open.
 There's also, like, the hype itself, I don't think,
 voted, right, like, the other validators voted,
 so you have to kind of make it, you know,
 from a regulatory perspective, there's a risk
 if it doesn't look like a decentralized and open.
 - So it was D5 theater, basically.
 - Well, I mean, like, again, the lawyers,
 lawyers make a lot of money, and they tell you things,
 and then, like, at the end of the day, like,
 who knows what the actual rules are?
 I don't think anybody knows, but.
 - Oh, my gosh, this is, all right.
 - Yeah, my lawyers sound authoritative from the tellysm.
 - The largest hype holders voted for this to pass, right?
 Like, that's how it works.
 Like, the validators, I know the foundation abstained, right,
 but they convinced hype, her, guys, whatever,
 like, all the big validators, they convince,
 it is what it is.
 I mean, yeah, I suppose capitalism is not always fair,
 but like, I don't think it's the controversy,
 I think what happened was it really blew up
 because a lot of VCs had--
 - Really, but I wouldn't call that capitalism.
 I wouldn't call it, like--
 - It's crony capitalism, others a lot of this.
 - Okay, but real capitalism is competition,
 whereas that was like a fake competition,
 and then instead it was, yeah, more communist--
 - They won with the most, the people at the most wanting
 ultimately decided the vote,
 and that's capitalism.
 Like, I think this is just, I really think what happened
 was that there was a lot of VCs who,
 and not just VCs, but founders, legitimate founders,
 like Guy, right, from Athena,
 who they all wanted to be involved.
 Like, they're like, oh, okay, we'll submit a proposal as well.
 And so it got a lot of hype, and then it appeared as though
 this had been preordained after there was a lot
 of really good proposals that came in,
 but at the end of the day, the people with the most money
 voted for it, like, I don't, I understand your point.
 - And you feel like it actually was decentralized.
 But nothing is decentralized.
 I mean, come on, who cares?
 Like, all of this stuff is here.
 - What are you arguing?
 - What are you arguing?
 - American democracy.
 Are you saying some of that's preordained before?
 - Yeah, but I'm just saying, it doesn't matter.
 Like, it's not even open source.
 It's a, like, the validators are sent a binary, right?
 That they run, and when they hard fork,
 they're just sent a new binary, right?
 And they just start, like, it's, this is not,
 I think we're overthinking this.
 There's a lot of, like, steps along the way prior to, like,
 oh, no, the, you know, yield-bearing stablecoin
 is, you know, preordained or chosen.
 It's like, there's a lot of things prior to that
 where if you're engaged in this network,
 you realize that there are, there is some top-down control
 and Jeff likely ships whatever code he wants
 out of the validators, and people seem to like the product.
 So, who cares, right?
 - So it is decentralization theater.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 - Okay.
 - Okay.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 - All right, good.
 For some reason, I thought you were arguing that it wasn't,
 and I was like, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
 What are you saying?
 Okay, okay.
 - It is, it is, but it works.
 It's good enough.
 (laughs)
 - Yeah, I mean, if, so, okay.
 If Hester purses, let's call it the safe harbor thing goes through,
 then yeah, I think they're within, like,
 the timeframe of when it could be centralized.
 So, you know, no big deal.
 And anyway, not like this SEC is gonna go after them.
 Okay, okay.
 Next, next big news was the acquisition of Echo by Coinbase.
 Along with the revival of Up Only, which hasn't happened,
 but yeah, the purchase of Up Only for 25,
 or the purchase of a season of Up Only for $25 million.
 And then now, you know,
 KOPI is doing customer support for Coinbase,
 which is what you do.
 You acquire somebody for $400 million
 so that they can do customer support for you.
 That is like clearly the best Aquaire of the year.
 But yeah, what were your thoughts?
 - I thought that, well, I think KOPI from what,
 so I don't, you know, I don't know him like that well,
 but I think what he was really trying to solve
 a problem in earnest.
 And I think that, I mean, Fogo used,
 this is a good opportunity to show Doug.
 Fogo used Echo, right?
 - Yeah, we did, we did Echo out of here.
 - Yeah, like, I think he was trying to solve a real problem
 that a lot of us had screeched about for a long time.
 And yeah, it was like quite a large number for--
 - And wait, like a good platform for ICOs.
 Is that what you mean?
 - Yeah, well, I think great.
 Like you early investors are like,
 ideally you're like, your early investors
 should be your users, like very cute.
 Like, I mean, I guess there are some VCs
 that will bring like liquidity or whatever,
 depending on the project.
 But like all things being equal,
 if you're gonna sell, you know, X amount of tokens
 to fund some project development at a certain price,
 you'd rather have them be users, right?
 Like people who invest are more likely
 to click on the network versus,
 now if you go to whatever, multi-coin,
 or whoever, like they're not gonna go
 do a bunch of chain activity.
 - Gore, were you gonna say more?
 - No, I mean, I will say that I don't necessarily
 share the view that investors must be users.
 It's in the context of crypto,
 I think it's what we've done
 and so we sort of take that as at face value.
 I don't, there's some nuance to whether
 or not I agree with that, but I take Dog's point.
 But I think more, I guess my point was more just,
 right for the past, I don't know, five years,
 you could probably send it further than that.
 We see these tokens launching at like extremely high FTVs
 and most of the charts get murdered
 and it doesn't seem that like this premise of retail
 having early access to these opportunities
 was really playing out because VCs
 were scooping up these rounds very, very early
 and oftentimes they were getting bit up
 in private subsequently, right?
 So it wasn't even just like one round,
 it was two or three rounds and then all of a sudden
 you're at one, two, $5 billion opening price, right?
 And so the premise obviously being that retail
 could just get earlier access, maybe with some conditions,
 maybe you need to be a credit investor,
 maybe there's lockups, but more replicate
 what some VCs have been getting for some period of time now.
 So like, I think he was, I saw a lot of Kobe,
 like when he would come on Twitter and respond to people,
 like I had conversations with him
 and mostly what I saw was I think he also agreed
 this was a real problem and so he was trying to solve it.
 So it's a hard thing to solve, right?
 I think at a practical level, we've had AngelList
 and TradFi for quite some time, it works differently
 with exits and tokens and dynamics,
 but I think what, I think it was a passion project
 because I think from what I can tell again,
 I don't know him that well, but what I see him say,
 I think he genuinely believes in, you know,
 the idea that he kind of puts forth with Echo.
 - Yeah, it's definitely from, I mean, his perspective,
 right, like Kobe Pearl has better deal flow
 than any AngelList group does, so.
 You know, it's very much a Robin Hood type story
 of the guy who has great deal flow is opening it up, so.
 - Yeah, and now that's why he does 'cause we're support.
 That's like his other way.
 - That's like a good Coinbase could use that.
 That's certainly, I mean, I will be honest,
 like, and I think people realize this,
 but I'll just say it directly, like what does it say
 about Coinbase that there have been problems
 that have not, that we've all dealt with for years
 and it's taken one guy who was acquired
 for an entirely separate reason, right?
 Like his company had nothing to do
 with fixing locked accounts, and he's like on,
 he's now being able to rectify this stuff.
 Like, I don't know, that's a little bit,
 that doesn't imbue tremendous confidence
 and like, Coinbase or my perspective
 that it takes this guy to come in here
 and like, he's fixing the problems
 that we've screeched about for years, right?
 My, I give up, I'll be honest, I only use Kraken now.
 Like when I'm already off, like, I don't,
 my account got locked, I have one of these back.
 - He never will get it back, right?
 - It was, I have screenshots of how hilarious
 the conversations were.
 - Why don't you message Kobe?
 - I did, actually, ironic, it's funny you say that.
 I talked to him last week, he was trying to help me
 because, so here's a good example.
 I had a friend who's not really crypto native,
 but like, I owed him some money and I said,
 I have some stablecoins on Solana.
 Can you send me your Solana address?
 And he sent me a Solana address unbeknownst to him,
 he didn't realize it was his coin-based address
 and I had USDT, so I didn't think anything of it
 and I sent him USDT on Solana to his coin-based address
 and of course they don't support USDT.
 By the way, this is a completely like background
 infrastructure thing that is 100% solvable.
 Like those coins just sit there and I don't,
 I mean, Doug is more tactical than I have,
 but I don't think it's, it's not that hard to fix.
 No, it's not that hard.
 They have the keys, right?
 Like it's not like they're lost or anything.
 Like did their address, but.
 There is a recovery tool now, apparently in Coby's,
 we're in the process of trying,
 the first time I tried it, it hasn't worked yet,
 but this kid now, like we're friends,
 he's gonna send me the money back
 because I ended up double paying him, right?
 Because I was like, oh dude, I'm sorry.
 Like, but when that, when we could unlock that,
 send that money back to me, right?
 And so now we're in that process.
 But like, that's a good example of like, come on, you know?
 - But I am wondering why somebody has USDT on Solana.
 That's a.
 - I have a bunch of different stablecoins,
 like probably like some incentives.
 - Crap on some level.
 - I don't know. - stablecoin enjoyer.
 - Yeah.
 - Why is that so weird?
 Like is it, you would think I'd have,
 people are really,
 people don't really use USDT that much at Solana.
 So it's like, like it was on Ethereum.
 I mean, I could see that, but.
 - Yeah.
 - Yeah.
 - Yeah.
 - It is, yeah, that is ridiculous.
 They can't do that.
 - It's annoying, right?
 - Like tether, a major stablecoin.
 - Yeah.
 - I mean, like maybe the reason
 that their regular customer service can't do it
 is because they are so busy sending our PII to hackers.
 - Have you ever dealt with coin-based customer support?
 Like have you ever, you don't,
 you like to really stay out of crypto, don't you?
 - No, I don't.
 - Okay.
 - Yeah, I've been in it and out of it at different periods,
 but I'm now back in it.
 But like, I have somebody manage that for me.
 - Okay.
 - So I am not like physically in control of my crypto,
 just, you know, for whoever's listening
 who maybe is like mad about something
 that I wrote about them or said about them
 or whatever, just so you know.
 Okay, okay.
 Before the ad break, let's just discuss briefly.
 The Bitcoin all-time high of $126,000,
 which is far below what I think a lot of other people
 kind of thought it was going to end up at the cycle.
 But yeah, what's your, what are your comments on this?
 And then by the way, this is just a few days
 before the 10, 10 liquidations.
 I mean, basically I had-
 - It was exciting.
 I think it was Kobe.
 I think it was Kobe.
 So we were just saying good things about him.
 So I think it was Kobe who said something, right?
 Like the road from like,
 - 125 will be the easy road, then 125 to like 250,
 or that'll be the hard road.
 And then 125 to 250 will be the easy road.
 So.
 - But like the other funny thing is this happened in October.
 And it was like, - Oh, yeah.
 - 60th and apparently is when we reached the all-time high
 and then yeah, then it was down toper, I guess.
 But I don't know.
 Yeah, well, okay.
 Yeah.
 So what do you think about that all-time high?
 And then we can discuss 10, 10.
 - It's exciting.
 I think obviously everybody thought
 that we were just gonna keep running for eternity.
 And the market tends to punish those
 who believe there's ever an easy road, I suppose.
 Yeah, I don't have much more than that.
 I mean, I was surprised.
 I mean, I listened.
 I think Udi came on, was it your podcast?
 - Yeah. So I talk with Udi a lot, right?
 And we were both like 400K by the end of the,
 well, he was saying 400K by the end of the year.
 And I was like, dude, I love it.
 Like I'm a man, I would love for that to be the case, right?
 And obviously, yeah, I think what,
 what most people who are smarter than I am on macro say
 is probably correct, right?
 We front-ran, like Trump coming in,
 we front-ran a lot of the trad-fi liquidity.
 And we were just sort of earlier, the stock market gold,
 everything is at all-time highs right now.
 And we kind of already ran that up.
 So, I mean, I suppose it was exciting.
 I had to hit that and it's less exciting now
 that it's 30% down, but yeah, I don't have much more than that.
 - All right, so in a moment,
 we're gonna talk about the 10, 10 liquidations
 and the rest of the year,
 but first a quick word for the sponsors
 to make the show possible.
 Hey, founders and developers,
 if you're looking to bring on-chain trading
 to your product, wallet, or platform,
 check out the new Uniswap Trading API from Uniswap Labs.
 It's your plug-and-play gateway to global on-chain liquidity,
 no deep crypto experience required,
 and no need to manage complex integrations
 or ongoing maintenance.
 With the Uniswap Trading API,
 you'll get enterprise-grade on-chain execution,
 combining both on-chain and off-chain sources
 for the most competitive prices.
 Simply put, more liquidity, less complexity.
 And this isn't just any API.
 It connects directly to the Uniswap protocol,
 which has securely processed over $3.3 trillion
 in total volume with zero hacks.
 So stop worrying about liquidity infrastructure
 and focus on building your product.
 Get access to the same liquidity
 that powers billions in swaps through one powerful API.
 Visit hub.uniswap.org to learn more.
 Mantle has entered a new phase
 as the distribution layer connecting tradfi
 and on-chain liquidity.
 To accelerate this vision,
 the Mantle Global Hackathon 2025
 is inviting developers to build scalable RWA and DeFi products.
 Why build on Mantle?
 It's an ecosystem built for builders.
 You get direct access to buy bits 7 million plus users
 for potential listing exposure,
 support from the $4 billion Mantle Treasury,
 and mentorship from top VCs
 like Spartan and Animoca Brands.
 With six tracks prioritizing RWA's and RealFi
 and a $150,000 prize pool plus grants,
 this is your chance to deploy
 on a high performance modular L2.
 Register now, the link is in the show notes.
 Back to my conversation with Doug and Gort.
 So, yeah, we left on the high note
 that the coin all-time high,
 although I don't know if that was a high note
 'cause it was far below what a lot of people thought
 the all-time high was gonna be.
 But anyway, we then come to the 1010 liquidations,
 which, yeah, that was, that was, like you said, Gort.
 I'm not really in crypto,
 but that was terrible even just for me,
 like watching, sitting on my computer
 on Friday afternoon, and yeah, a huge shocker.
 Interestingly, I feel like it's the first time
 that I've ever heard of finance,
 like really fucking something up, you know?
 Not, and that wasn't like regulatory.
 Like, this was like an actual failure
 on the part of the trading apparatus.
 And then we also have that element of the whale
 who made a shit ton of money,
 and it's seemingly, you know,
 somebody who's connected to the White House.
 So those elements together make for, you know,
 kind of a spicy story.
 So what's your take on what happened there?
 - Dog is like our premier expert on 1010.
 You know, he wrote this thread
 that was like one of the most popular threads
 in Twitter history.
 - Doug, you became, you became, you became, like, a star.
 - I'm actually surprised I got.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean, I don't know.
 I feel like we still don't know exactly what happened
 on 1010, I don't know if we ever will know
 exactly what happened, and people are like,
 oh, so-and-so got liquidated.
 I mean, look, like a lot of people like it.
 - Wait, do you disagree with the two elements
 that I talked about?
 Like the big one?
 - Oh, no, no, I think they're true.
 But like, I don't, I mean, people are still not like,
 oh, somebody big got, you know, liquidated on 1010,
 and they're like, the market's been broken since then,
 or like, right, people will have like conspiracies.
 Like, oh, Binance was gonna switch USDE
 to like, different collateral mode, like three days later.
 And so this was planned ahead of time.
 Like, I don't know, I don't think we'll ever,
 I don't think we'll ever really know exactly what happened.
 - Yeah, I mean, like everyone was farming perps, right?
 Like everyone was farming perpedexes,
 everyone had like some leverage on some things.
 And like, all it's went to like zero, at least like wick.
 So even if you were on like two X leverage,
 and you probably thought it was like safe farming,
 you know, whatever, the enflargest perpedex,
 you know, I feel like everyone kind of got wiped,
 not wiped out, but like everyone got to kind of like hit.
 I got, I got liquidated on gold.
 And that was like the only position I had open.
 It's hilarious, like I had, of course, naively had zero idea
 that I could get liquidated on three X on gold.
 Yeah, but as such is the case.
 Honestly, like, again, I don't have any insight
 into market structure and stuff.
 It's really not to the extent that Doug does.
 So we should press him around that.
 But one thing I would say is honestly,
 it's really not ideal that Bitcoin can go down.
 Like that in 30 minutes.
 And it's also not ideal.
 And I'm saying like, this is something we all know
 because we've dealt with insane amounts of volatility.
 We've been in crypto for the past five, 10 years,
 whatever, like we've all seen this.
 But I've been talking to people who are trying to,
 I wouldn't say bring mass adoption,
 but they are trying to build products.
 They are trying to build useful services
 for people to use Bitcoin, use crypto.
 And we sit here and we were all very much sold
 on this non sovereign store value.
 Like a lot of people apply that to Bitcoin
 and people apply that to other assets as well.
 But it's hard to like, this delays adoption.
 This type of thing really does delay adoption in my mind.
 Like, and I know we, that's fine.
 Like I'm more people.
 I'm as bullish as I ever will be on Bitcoin, right?
 Like, so this is in the long run to me.
 It's like, okay, all of this stuff is ups and downs.
 Like people know that I'm just Bitcoin succeeds great
 if it dies.
 Like I'm gonna die with it and I'm fine with that.
 And I know that, right?
 But like, so it doesn't change my conviction,
 but I really do think that this is not ideal.
 And we're sitting here telling people
 like this is a store of value.
 And it goes down 15% in 30 minutes
 and then bleeds down 40% over the course of three months.
 Like that is a hard pitch to boomers.
 It's a hard pitch to people who would invest
 thinking that this, you know, can preserve their wealth
 and then they're down 40%.
 Like, and we see gold, we see the stock market, right?
 These things aren't great.
 Like, you know, zooming out, it's really not ideal.
 And it's annoying, you know?
 And I guess it should have been, right?
 Like you would think that ETFs and like widespread.
 Exactly.
 Hold it, right?
 It's like, like the story in like 2013
 is just a bunch of like online, like crazy people
 trading was back and forth.
 But like, at this point, institutions on it,
 like there should be stable.
 Right, exactly.
 Like we, that was the whole pitch was like,
 the institutions are here.
 We'll never see this, you know, extreme volatility.
 Again, there's a constant bid, right?
 Like there's, there's, there's a perpetual bid
 on the books for massive size, any whales
 that have held for 10, 15 years can easily get out now
 without, you know, moving the chart
 because there is a persistent bid.
 And then we have these events.
 And like, yeah, I mean, I talked to somebody, you know,
 building like a lending protocol.
 And it's like, it's hard to build financial products
 around these type of assets when, you know,
 you think you're taking out a very, you know,
 conservative loan and you're just wiped.
 Like, you know, put aside me getting liquidated
 on gold because I had no idea.
 Of course, like I'm just, you know,
 degenerately screwing around.
 But like, this is the stuff that I'm, you know,
 it's unfortunate by like, okay, such is life, right?
 Such as markets, I guess.
 - Yeah, it's kind of funny.
 It's like, yeah, crypto people who are true believers
 had their comeuppance because like gold reached
 all time eyes this year.
 And now, okay, Bitcoin did too,
 but you know, gold really outpaced Bitcoin.
 And it's just like a lesson in, you know,
 the market for crypto is still so small
 and like adoption is still so little.
 And so, yeah, like way more people in the world
 have faith in gold than they do in Bitcoin.
 - It is painful.
 Silver, silver keeps hitting all time highs
 and Bitcoin is just, ooh, ooh.
 - I'm not worried, it's probably, look,
 it's probably a good thing to like, as a reminder that,
 you know, this is not,
 they're, this easy road does not exist.
 And, you know, I, obviously,
 I don't think Bitcoin's going to zero,
 but like this stuff takes time.
 And this idea that all of a sudden nation states
 are just gobbling this up in, you know, massive size
 and will never let it, you know, experience volatility
 is probably pretty delusional.
 And this happens in the stock market as well.
 So like let's not pretend that this is a uniquely crypto thing,
 but yeah, it's annoying, like it's super annoying,
 especially when I'm talking to people of, you know,
 someone's wedding and I'm saying, yeah, you know,
 by the Bitcoin ETF, like, you know, now you can just get
 on your brokerage account, like no problem,
 don't deal with this custody stuff.
 And like three weeks later, just nukes.
 And I'm like, you're pretending I didn't say that stuff.
 - It's never good at Thanksgiving.
 You want it, you want Thanksgiving to be the oldest.
 Thanksgiving is always a bad, true time for crypto people.
 - Exactly.
 - Yeah, yeah, hopefully people didn't have too terrible
 with Thanksgiving.
 - But, wait, I think we should, we should ask Doug
 one more thing, so with regards to the whole 10, 10 thing,
 'cause again, is the foremost expert
 and almost everybody would say that.
 The one thing I wish to ask you about,
 so like circuit breakers or something resembling
 circuit breakers, right?
 We have these in TradFi where if a stock just nukes
 in a very short period of time, people, you know,
 they cut trading and they're like, okay, hang on,
 let's figure out what's going on.
 There's some proposed solutions where like,
 perhaps not a pure played circuit breaker,
 but you know, some short period of time where--
 - Where are you time out?
 - Yeah, so what are your like, sort of,
 what were your conclusions on this?
 I don't know if it's feasible with something like a DAX,
 but like, what are your kind of--
 - I don't think it's a bad idea.
 Like, some of those wicks, like, to zero, you kind of, right?
 You don't wanna liquidate people, 'cause it's a huge one.
 - They were finding fair value.
 - Adam's aren't fair value.
 - Maybe those are the fair value of some of those allts,
 but right, like, is this not a terrible,
 the challenge is, I think like, really,
 what happens with 10/10 is you have like,
 market makers, and especially in crypto, right?
 Like, market makers have to, like,
 especially you're on some long-scale venue,
 you have to hedge other places,
 and like, ADL kind of screwed everyone here,
 'cause you're getting closed down on one side of your hedge,
 and you weren't open on another,
 and I guess like, my word with circuit breakers is like,
 if you were, you know, trading on hyper liquid,
 and hedging at Binance, and like, one is shut down,
 like, that could actually like, really, really screw you,
 'cause you can't, you can't like, hedge your positions.
 - Yeah, that's what I was gonna say.
 Like, I feel like it would only make sense,
 or you don't tell me if I'm thinking about this correctly,
 but like, it would only make sense
 if they check that like, the price dissocation
 is only on their venue, and they have a way
 to figure out that it's not anywhere else,
 because otherwise, like, yeah, it can really,
 like, there will be people who will be upset
 if there's like a policy at one place
 that isn't replicated at the others,
 or if the circuit breaker kicks in
 when it like, shouldn't have, so yeah,
 I feel like it almost opens like a can of worms, so.
 - Yeah, I mean, it's just, it's tough,
 it's tough to get, it's tough to get right, right?
 Like, in, in trad fight, like, the nice thing is,
 you can claw back like, money afterwards, right?
 So if like, some things messed up, and there's errors, right?
 Like, you can always go to, you know,
 sit it all or whoever, and you like,
 right, claw back money from, you can't,
 you can't do that in crypto.
 - It's really, it's bad if there's like, so,
 if so few people know what's going on,
 if so few market makers know what's going on,
 they're just pulling all liquidity from the books,
 that's like not, that doesn't end up well.
 Like, when we saw this, when everyone's like, hang on,
 like, where is this coming from, and what's going on?
 Like, yeah, that's really not ideal.
 That's when you see these, you know, wicks to zero.
 - Yeah, I mean, I mean, the reality is like,
 the technology at crypto exchanges is not great, right?
 Like, API gateways, like, hey,
 if there's something that's an easy fix,
 it's like make the API gateways more reliable,
 like they just go offline, they give you like,
 they give you your orders like 10 minutes later, right?
 And this is something, right, like crypto exchanges,
 they have a lot of money, they could invest,
 and then it is like a Coinbase, like customer service thing,
 like why 10 years now do they not have like reliable gateways?
 Like go hire someone from NASDAQ
 and just build a reliable gateway.
 - Okay, let's, let's move on to the next big news event.
 At least that I remembered,
 which was the surge in privacy coins as Zcash leading the pack,
 but a bunch of other privacy coins also in tow.
 What did you make of that?
 It kind of came out of nowhere,
 and I want to float a theory by you,
 which is that in my mind, what happened is thread guy
 was hit by a big tax bill and was like,
 stressing about it on the timeline.
 And literally the next day, all of a sudden, we like see,
 maybe it wasn't the next day, but like within, you know,
 four days afterwards, we see this huge surge in Zcash.
 Like, am I wrong in thinking that there was a connection there
 or like was there, wasn't there?
 - Thread guy realized that California is a high tax state.
 Yeah.
 - But is that related to the surge in Zcash or not?
 - Oh, was that the, I actually,
 timing was coincidental, I think.
 - Okay, so like why did Zcash suddenly surge
 overnight, I just never understood that?
 - Well, okay, so in crypto,
 we have these things called narratives, all right.
 And every few months we cycle through a new one.
 And one we had not cycled through in quite some time
 was this idea around privacy.
 And there was this, you know, collective,
 I guess realization that everything
 on a blockchain is public.
 And so that was a narrative, it is perhaps still ongoing.
 - No, like what caused that to happen at that moment?
 - I guess 10/10 actually probably did play.
 I mean, honestly, I didn't know because it was the end
 of September is when Zcash in the privacy mindset.
 - Oh, was it?
 Well, I mean, James Winnin, like people were talking
 about like being hunted on perp desks.
 - Yeah, but James Winnin, that was like in May.
 - Yeah, I don't know, I'm just trying.
 I mean, one thing is right, like privacy was kind of,
 you didn't want to touch it for like previous admin.
 So I think we hadn't done a privacy narrative
 in a while and just cause like,
 if you're a dev and you're a privacy dev, like, okay,
 go to jail.
 And so now it's like, kind of the first time in a while
 you don't go to jail, that's your privacy dev.
 - I think, okay, Laura, I'll load with you.
 - Okay, but one of them just went to prison, but anyway.
 - I think you're overthinking the why, like, you know,
 why did we have this AI agent narrative
 where these coins pumped to billions of dollars?
 Like it's just, these things just happen and there's not,
 so I think that we hadn't had a privacy narrative
 in a long time and I also think that I grew a thug
 that this new administration seems, you know,
 more open to virtually everything.
 And if this gets us talking about privacy,
 which is something new to talk about, right?
 We would like run through the same things over and over.
 Then that's probably net good, so in terms of why,
 I mean, why does, you know, why does the sun rot?
 It's like, I think it's like, these things just happen
 within our space and it was time, you know what I mean?
 The energy was such that it was time.
 - Interesting, okay, I don't know.
 To me, it was such a spike.
 I was kind of like, there has to be, like, a real reason.
 - Okay, so I have some theories about that, but I won't,
 you know. - Don't, but say them, say them.
 - I mean, it's nothing more than what people have said.
 Well, okay.
 So Z, so liquidity is very, very thin on Zcash.
 So it does not take much to make it run.
 - Yeah.
 - There's also a lot of people who have held Zcash
 for a long time.
 So, you know, there was a data announced recently
 that I don't know, you can kind of, I don't want to,
 like, truly, I don't want to say anything
 because I'm purely speculating.
 But if you followed narratives and dabs for the past,
 you know, six months, you can probably deduce
 what may be going on, may be happening.
 I don't want to, like, suggest anything nefarious.
 Like, you know, like, Mert's one of our friends
 and I don't, I'm not suggesting anything, like, untoward.
 I'm just, you can probably make some educated guesses.
 You could also probably look at who are the big supporters
 of Zcash in the past, who are the big holders.
 Like, none of this is, like, private information.
 So, I don't know, that's, that's my guess.
 Like, yeah, look at, look at a lot of the data.
 - I just, like, Barry, Barry Silver was trying
 to pump Zcash for, like, years.
 - I know, right.
 - It's just down only charting.
 And Mert comes in and, whew.
 - Yeah, I know, right?
 God, to your KOL.
 - But is he, he's not involved in the debt, is he?
 - No, I don't think so, but he is.
 - He's a privacy advocate now.
 - Yeah.
 - Okay, so he's, like, a whale who heard wind of the debt
 or something, maybe.
 - No, I, really, like, I know you want us to spew gossip
 and shitpost, like, we may do on Twitter,
 but I really don't have any, like, you know,
 enlightening information.
 I'm just, there's things where I agree with you.
 You see this, like, massive, you know,
 straight up on the chart and it's, like, what's going on?
 Like Doug said, there's, there was a,
 you could go look at, like, all the exchanges,
 there's very, very little, like--
 - Yeah, I just don't think it would take,
 like, the chart is very impressive,
 but it doesn't take much money to make a look that way.
 So it doesn't even have to be, like, most of this,
 it could be, like, one or two, like, Zcash.
 - Right, and let's, like, let's forget, like, you know,
 what, Farquain ran to well over a billion, like, you know.
 - Yeah, this is a, the market cap's not, then market cap's not super high, right?
 - No, it's not insane, it's not, it's not, yeah.
 - And it's all deluded, and it's not, like, you know, low-flow coin, so.
 - Right, yeah, I mean, like, so I already made this joke on the show,
 but, like, to me, just the fact that they named the debt cypherpunk,
 like, I'm like, so least cypherpunk thing that you could do is make a dad.
 Anyway, whatever, it's a great name, I'm not criticizing the name,
 I just find it hysterical. (laughs)
 Okay, okay.
 Next thing, well, yeah, so we actually didn't cover AI agents,
 but, like, that is, like, such a, you know, that, I mean,
 that's been of interest to a lot of people for, like, the last year,
 and obviously, this X402 standard has, you know,
 piqued a lot of interest, so what are your thoughts on that?
 - Doug, what do you think of AI agents?
 - Future of crypto, uh, (laughs)
 No, I actually, I've been following the AI agent stuff,
 not very, I should follow it more.
 I guess, generally, I feel like there's a lot of hype for,
 I'm sure there's tech there, I'm sure there's tech underneath,
 but I think it's very, very easy when, like, open AI's at a trillion dollars
 to slap AI on anything in crypto and have the valuation run-ups.
 - Doug is our, Doug is our resident AI dumer.
 - AI bear. - Yeah, yeah, but not dumer,
 like, he doesn't think it's gonna decimate him, humanity,
 and he's just gonna do nothing every time.
 - I do use it all the time, though, like, I'm constantly--
 - Every argument we have is-- - Every argument is to say AI,
 but it's AI arguing against AI.
 - I'm not using AI, those are my real thoughts.
 (laughs)
 - No, I don't know, I mean, I haven't really been far.
 I just think it's very low signal, good noise,
 so I haven't taken the time really to see what is high signal in there, so.
 - Okay. - I don't really know
 what the X for a two thing apart from, like, payments, agents to agents.
 I mean, this whole thing is, like, a deep, in my opinion,
 like, misunderstanding as to what AI is and, like, what agents are.
 It's not like there's this whole hype around autonomous agents interacting and stuff,
 like, it's just code, like, agents trading, you know,
 we've had code trading on NASDAQ in the New York Stock Exchange for 20 years.
 It's called algorithmic trading, right?
 Like, nobody is hand-smashing market orders, right?
 They have, like, a system.
 Like, all of this stuff has been intentionally anthropomorphized
 in order to sell, like, this narrative of an agent economy,
 and it's like, there's still humans directing people to do this,
 and I think the whole thing is, like, somewhat of a charade.
 I don't know what the-- I saw the X for a two thing.
 There was, like, some meme coins that came of it,
 but I don't actually know what it does, like, it's just another--
 - It's literally just, like, a standard.
 So it just helps create a standard way for people to code AI agents.
 I did an episode with one of the authors,
 and then somebody who founded a company that, you know, also works in this area.
 And it was, I mean, it was really interesting.
 - Yeah, I don't think it's something that you can directly make money from.
 It's more just, like, you know, HTTP or, you know, whatever.
 So-- but, yeah, you can build something that uses it.
 Okay, so we don't have a lot of time left,
 but there's definitely a few other topics we should definitely hit.
 One is a Kalshy versus Polymarket.
 I mean, this is like-- this is just, you know, like,
 blood in the streets kind of rivalry, in my opinion.
 The way these two companies--
 yeah, just, I don't know, it's so interesting.
 Like, Kalshy, you know, trying to get all these different influencers
 and, like, Polymarket doing the same thing.
 Kalshy, you know, raised a billion dollars at an $11 billion valuation.
 Polymarket raised, you know, at a $12 billion valuation.
 So these, I don't know, what do you guys think of
 this whole thing going down between the two of them?
 I think it-- so, okay.
 I agree with you.
 I actually think it's the most--
 It really is, like, the most acerbic sort of--
 I mean, I guess we've dealt with this in crypto for a while.
 Oh, this is like the FBI, right?
 Like, the people are saying--
 Yeah.
 So like, Kalshy from Polymarket--
 Kalshy-- yeah, accusations that they were--
 Yeah, that's--
 I don't feel like we call the FBI on somebody.
 That's hard to--
 Wait, but Kalshy called the FBI on Shane?
 They're-- right, this was right after the election.
 Shane was detained, his phones were searched.
 They had-- they had Antonio--
 Was it Antonio Brown, I think?
 Tweet that's, like, this dialogue guilty or something?
 Okay, first of all, this is a legend.
 Like, I don't want to get--
 Yeah, a legend.
 Dude here, so I don't know.
 But I will say there hasn't been, like, an extreme denial of that,
 from what I can tell, on Kalshy's part, I don't--
 That seems like sort of understood to have been true,
 that they had people--
 I don't think they necessarily called the FBI on Shane,
 maybe, I don't know.
 But they did have--
 It wasn't since some of them from Kalshy was like--
 They were dunking on them, though, at least after.
 Like, you know if they weren't like--
 They were dunking on them on Twitter, like--
 For sure, well, and then also, I think they did,
 like, reach out to influencers to, like, insinuate that--
 Right, that was a great idea.
 Yeah.
 So that's really not a very good look.
 I don't think that's, like, very--
 Again, if true, not a good look.
 And, you know, there was--
 Like, I've heard Tariq--
 Is it Tariq?
 Tariq?
 Anyways, I've heard him--
 Tariq.
 --so let me say, like, we've made some mistakes.
 So it is like, I don't know if that was an admission or what,
 but yeah, like, that's really not a great look from Kalshy.
 But, like, the energy on--
 Like, the back and forth is, like, very extreme, right?
 And I think it's because it's--
 You have, like, two sort of novel--
 I say novel.
 I mean, you have two companies that are--
 Or could eventually make a tremendous amount of money.
 Like, these could potentially be extremely valuable,
 and they already are to some capacity.
 And it's like--
 So the competition is fierce, right?
 I guess that's maybe the most, you know, generous way
 to interpret it.
 Are either of them a large compared to, like,
 Fandal or kind of the traditional betting?
 It's a good question.
 What is trafficking trading at?
 Yeah, like--
 Like, trading volume?
 No, no, no.
 Yeah, just like, actual, like, volume, like, profit to--
 OK, so, like, traffic-- well, by--
 So, polymarket and Kalshy are almost valued market capwise
 at--
 Yeah, market cap--
 No, no, by belief, right?
 OK, I'm just pointing out that, yeah.
 Well, it's all paper.
 Yeah, I see what you're saying, right?
 So they're being--
 I mean, they're being underwritten at, like, you know--
 I suppose, like, you know, $100 billion company.
 But no, I think the vast majority of it
 is sports betting, it seems, for the time being.
 I know a polymarket made this big deal of, you know,
 showing that they were a lot more prediction market.
 They had a lot more, you know, prediction market volume,
 whereas Kalshy maybe is the vast majority of it
 is sports betting, so.
 But I don't know.
 I mean, there's, I think, what, 50, 60,000 daily active users
 on both, like--
 or one of the polymarket, like--
 we'll see.
 It does seem pretty--
 I mean, it just strikes-- I don't know.
 I don't know this face very well.
 It feels like you're kind of out ahead of the skis, right?
 Like, we're assuming that, like, one of them
 are going to win.
 But, like, to me, it seems just as likely, like,
 draft Kings, you know, draft Kings
 does election versus, you know, polymarket does sports.
 I think-- so I will, like, sort of disclose, like,
 I am friends with people at polymarket.
 Like, you know, friendly with Shane, I suppose.
 And also, people at Kalshy, so I don't really
 have a dog in this fight.
 But, yes, I do tend to agree that.
 Also, from what I can tell, the legal side of this
 is binomians worked out.
 And if there's anybody who is, you know, at--
 like, if you want to talk about a lobby that
 is extremely protective of what they are granted
 by the federal government, it is states with gambling
 and Native American tribes.
 So there is going to be pushback on this.
 And, you know, we'll see.
 But I don't think we're done in that capacity, right?
 Like, we talk about this a lot with, you know,
 some of our friends, like, they're--
 I don't think this whole fight is by any means one
 from prediction markets if they are perceived as gambling,
 similarly, to DraftKings, FanDuel, you know,
 all the massive Las Vegas behemoths.
 Yeah, so I just did some quick googling
 to try to figure this out.
 And it looks like the Gemini AI is telling me
 that Kalshy's trading volume annualized
 has reached approximately $50 billion as of November.
 And it also tells me that FanDuel has--
 or in 2024, FanDuel had $50 billion wagered.
 So, you know, I don't know if that's exactly apples to apples,
 but it seems like, you know, at least there's something--
 It was pretty significant.
 Yeah.
 So, Polymarket is smaller, but, you know,
 they are only rolling out in the US now.
 So, I would imagine they're going to catch up
 at a certain point.
 OK, so one other thing that I wanted to ask you--
 I mean, I actually have a few, three more.
 But one other one, because this just, you know,
 ICO Beast is associated now with Kalshy.
 But I'm sure you saw what happened with him in Megaheth,
 where he basically was like, oh, I never
 see this allocation.
 And he was named as one of the--
 I forget what they called them, but there
 was kind of a tranche that received more than normal,
 because they had helped the Megaheth team so much,
 and he was in that tranche.
 So, I would imagine that his allocation
 was pretty significant.
 And they took it away, because he was trying to figure out
 how to hedge.
 So, because there was a lock up on that.
 So, what do you make of that?
 Doug?
 I mean, I don't know.
 It was a good spectacle, right?
 Like, crypto is all about spectacle.
 So, I don't know.
 I think it's honestly probably good for Megaheth,
 good for Mr. Beast.
 OK, even though he lost his significant allocation.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 But I mean, it kind of puts him in the spotlight right now.
 It's like, we're talking about him
 on a year-end recap show on whether KOLs did that treatment.
 I don't know.
 I guess it's kind of funny.
 Maybe it's controversial, like, if you say bad stuff
 about somebody.
 I don't know.
 I don't have a real strong opinion.
 I thought it was entertaining.
 Would you yank someone's allocation
 if they were shit-talking critical of my projects?
 Yeah, yeah.
 No, I don't think I don't think I--
 I think that, like, I will say this.
 No, but it wasn't that he was critical.
 It was that he tried to hedge it.
 That's what it was.
 Oh, he tried to hedge it.
 Yeah, I mean, I feel like everybody--
 He openly talked on, yeah, acts about it.
 Everybody does it.
 I guess people don't really--
 I know, but it was against the rules.
 Yeah, it's against the rules.
 OK, so, like, OK, then, yeah.
 I mean, he should have to deal with the repercussions.
 I will say that I only fall this loosely, but I did see it.
 And I don't think that, you know, you tweet something
 and you probably don't realize what the ramifications of that
 are.
 So I-- maybe one thing I would say is, like, I know--
 Yeah, I would think maybe, like, Brother Bing would have reached
 out to him and been like, hey, like, this isn't cool, you know,
 first.
 But maybe to make a point, you need
 to bring down the hammer sometimes.
 But it wasn't that, like, that's not that egregious.
 So yeah, I guess--
 But what he did, he mean, or what they did?
 Yeah, I don't think it's what he did.
 And then, I guess, also, what they--
 I mean, if it was against the rules, then, yeah, it, like--
 and it was less than learn.
 Yeah, it wasn't like allocation he held for, like, years
 and was, like, getting robbed on the value.
 It was, like, you're getting a refund for something
 you did a couple days ago.
 Well, and also, like, given token launches this year,
 like, we'll see if he ends up losing a ton of money on that.
 Like, maybe that was the greatest thing in the world, right?
 To be saved 100k or whatever it was, I don't know.
 Yeah, I mean, but the point is that whatever
 they allocated to him, especially, like I said,
 he was in a special tranche where he had helped them the most.
 So I think it was a very generous allocation.
 So yeah, that reflects however many years he was helping them.
 And then, now, he got nothing for it.
 But, OK.
 Well, he's a calcium, like, shill.
 He's getting paid, I'm sure, not even just shill.
 He's, like, a full-time, like, part of their PR team.
 Like, he's doing fine, I'm sure.
 So less than learn.
 I don't think what he did was that bad.
 And I don't think they ganking it's that bad.
 But, like, I mean, it was funny.
 It was funny.
 OK, OK.
 Let's talk about something that is, like, intentionally funny,
 which is, Choose Rich Nick has, like, really broken through
 to, like, even non-crypto people.
 You know, obviously, we all saw the initial, like, girlfriend
 tweet.
 But then, you know, he went viral for May I Meet You.
 Like, now it just feels like he's going viral, generally,
 for, like, a lot of stuff.
 I'm curious for your thoughts on him.
 And that's called--
 I think he's actually really funny.
 I think he's really funny.
 It's, like, full caveat, like, we've actually
 worked with him for some stuff on Fogo.
 But, I mean, look, it kind of reminds me, like,
 Sasha Barricowan, like, Borat, or, like, Bruno.
 Like, he really picks these characters and leans into them.
 Definitely takes, like, whenever he's yelling at you
 and mad at you, like, kind of lean in more to it.
 It takes some special type of personality.
 But, yeah, I think he's funny.
 He's definitely more cringe people on Twitter.
 I don't know if you listen.
 He came on the show, and he was not in his persona,
 and he was so thoughtful.
 And it was, like, actually--
 Yeah, and it was a really, really interesting interview.
 He, yeah, he, like, gave us a behind-the-scenes look
 at how they do some of their stuff.
 And, like, I don't know if you remember the avalanche
 controversy, but there was some, like, avalanche event
 on a yacht.
 And then, yeah, like--
 I thought that was only a troll, right?
 That was only what?
 I thought that was, like, all a troll, wasn't it?
 Yeah, yeah, so he revealed that.
 Like, basically, what happened was he got kicked off,
 but nobody sort of knew what for.
 And then, we tweeted.
 What happened was that he had imitated Justin's son
 with the banana art, but instead, he
 had painted his penis yellow and attached it to the wall.
 And so, Kobe's tweeted that.
 And, like, then, suddenly, that was, like,
 the narrative of what actually happened.
 But, yeah, she's rich, Nick, came on the show
 and revealed actually what really happened, which wasn't that.
 But apparently.
 OK, OK.
 So the last two things-- these two things
 are, like, a weird combo, but it was just
 interested for your reaction to the "do quan" sentence
 of 15 years.
 I'll be honest.
 It was, like, so something that seemed fairly obvious--
 that's the web case.
 So first of all, the collapse of Luna was--
 like, the whole thing was very obvious, right?
 Like, and it was pretty clear what happened.
 There was no--
 yeah, I don't think--
 I think it's fairly straightforward what happened there.
 Now, I will say that all of the subsequent--
 the stuff that came out, like, so much stuff--
 it was, like, information overload.
 And everything that came out afterwards
 just became, like, I wasn't going
 to follow every little detail as to what transpired, both
 publicly and in the background and all the deals
 you had with market makers and all this stuff.
 Like, was you buying this Bitcoin?
 Like, all this stuff just got, like, so convoluted,
 so complex to me.
 There was this post the other day from somebody
 who was at Terraform, is that what it was called?
 It was-- I mean, this was, like, a novella.
 I mean, it was, like, you know, 10 pages.
 So I didn't read that, but I did read the last sentence
 or the last couple sentences.
 And there was some sympathy, which, you know--
 I don't know, like, at the end of the day,
 like, how much was it patently a Ponzi scheme?
 Or was it transparent what he was doing?
 I think that's one side of it, and then
 the other side of it was, was he doing illegal stuff
 in the background, which it ended up appearing, yes?
 But I don't know.
 I mean, it's one of these things where
 the whole thing was so obviously broken that you--
 I mean, it gets to the market cap it did.
 Like, there was going to be a fallout,
 and, yeah, it's been pretty extreme.
 Yeah, but do you think he should be in prison
 for 15 years for that?
 I don't know.
 I really, like--
 Yeah, I just feel like Luna itself, right?
 Like, everyone knew kind of the rules of it.
 I don't think he should be in prison for 15 years,
 because, like, Luna was, like, a Ponzi scheme
 that was transparent, and it was kind of like, right,
 like, 2022 people were 2021 people were kind of nuts.
 But, like, to Gord's point, like, I
 don't know all the things in court.
 Like, who-- like, what was the one thing?
 Like, the chai, like, payments thing he was lying about,
 like, how much that was used, like, right?
 Like, you know, he--
 I'm sure he was doing so much stuff.
 Like, where's their fraud?
 Like, where was he, like, lying to people about--
 which doesn't change, like, the intent, like,
 how Luna works, right?
 Like, this is still, like, ultimately, right?
 Like, a silly thing.
 But-- and maybe it doesn't, like, I don't know how many people
 were buying Luna based on, like, chai
 would have, like, a lot of transaction volume.
 My guess is probably not many.
 In 2021, I think people were buying a lot of crypto.
 Those are just silly.
 But, like, I'm sure he did enough that there's probably
 actual, like, fraudulent acts.
 He's not the most endearing character.
 Like, I mean, the way he interacted with people for two
 years was so boisterous, it was so arrogant.
 And, you know, it's kind of like an Icarus-type thing, right?
 Like, if anything, that type of attitude
 makes it more likely that when this does unravel,
 when things do blow up, that people are very, very curious
 as to what was going on in the background.
 And when you are making claims that are probably
 end up being patently untrue, like, I don't know.
 I mean, if he was sort of, like, a demure Jeff from hyper-liquid
 type who never really was public facing
 and wasn't really publicly saying what
 was going on in the background, right?
 But there may have been some, like, you know, kind of reap
 what you sow.
 And from what I can tell, I don't know,
 15 years seems like a lot.
 But maybe it's not enough.
 I don't know.
 But he's not somebody who goes, like, well, what a great guy.
 You know, like, man, what a shame.
 He got screwed, like, maybe he's in jail for 10 more years
 than he should be, right?
 Like, I don't know.
 But yeah, I don't have, like, much--
 I wasn't really get into that after it fell apart.
 Yeah, yeah, I know it didn't follow.
 Yeah, the fraudulent bits.
 The one sentiment that I saw on Twitter that made a lot of sense
 to me was that, yeah, people lost a lot of money in Luna,
 but they lost, like, paper gains, which
 is different from, like, FTX and SPF, where they, you know,
 although, no, I guess even some of that could be the same.
 But it's like, they--
 I mean, yeah, I don't know.
 UST went to zero.
 And that wasn't--
 Yeah, UST was--
 That wasn't really a paper gain of people.
 We're at the bag as how much interest you were stacking.
 But yeah, you were--
 But it's more like--
 Dude, if you deposited 100K into UST to get 20% yield,
 and it goes to zero, you lost 100K.
 So I don't know if you got a year of--
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 No, you're--
 But also, one other thing about that is like--
 Like, hopefully, people were educated
 to understand the risks.
 Whereas, like, what's different with FTX is like,
 he literally took the actual funds.
 Whereas, like, dough-- it was like a failed thing.
 Yeah, I do--
 I do agree with that.
 Like, FTX was straight up.
 The money was stolen like there is, and there was no there.
 And like, UST-- like, the UST mechanism itself.
 Like, I actually--
 well, if people might be mad or whatever.
 But like, people knew what they were getting into.
 And it's just like a question of what's fraudulent.
 You know, around what he was saying
 to telling different people.
 But no one was deceived.
 Like, oh, there's actual dollars.
 But I lost you.
 Yeah.
 OK.
 So last really quick thing I want to touch on
 is like, what do you think of this quantum threat
 that everybody's talking about?
 Like, are you following that?
 Like, I don't know.
 Some people are saying that Nick Carter is like over--
 you know, overreacting to this potential threat.
 Do you think this is something crypto people should worry
 about or not?
 OK.
 I just did-- actually, I just did a podcast today on this.
 So I'm going to show my podcast.
 I was not going to show my podcast, but now I shall--
 Well, this-- I mean, this isn't coming out for like another week
 after we're recording anyway.
 OK.
 Well, OK.
 So I just did a podcast on this.
 And go back and listen to it now.
 With a guy who is a longtime Bitcoin developer--
 not a Cordev, but just somebody who's like, you know,
 independently hacking away on Bitcoin for a while.
 And he is not a quantum researcher, OK?
 He's not a physicist.
 But he is somebody who I think is quite bright
 and is quite pragmatic.
 He is very, very skeptical.
 With that said, I don't think--
 so I think Nick is what he's doing is in earnest.
 Like, I read-- I read the first one.
 I'm not concerned about quantum.
 Yeah, that's like my take is that I have basically--
 I think there's actually a lot of other concerns
 prior to quantum for crypto.
 One, like a use case.
 Two, getting people to utilize--
 30 budget?
 30 budget?
 That was last cycle's fun.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Again, with Bitcoin most of the stuff, at least to me, right?
 Like, longtime, like, digging my heels, don't care.
 Bull is, OK, like, all this stuff doesn't really
 phase me because I'm going to live by the sword, die by the sword.
 Like, whatever happens happens.
 So I'm not--
 I am very unconvinced on quantum.
 I also am the last person you should ask about quantum.
 So I hope that helps.
 Doug, you're more of a computer scientist than I am.
 Yeah, I mean, I don't know.
 I think it's hard to predict.
 I feel like there's going to be--
 it's not all of a sudden there's going to be quantum computer
 tomorrow.
 So I think what people are afraid of is like, oh, Bitcoin
 Core devs are like, it's so ossified at this point
 that you can't even make a small change or take
 10 years and, like, you know, they'll
 be able to develop this whole new type of technology
 before Bitcoin Core can even, like, make a three line code
 change to the protocol.
 Yeah.
 I don't know.
 Like, I did small on my things to worry about.
 I think there's definitely other things to worry about.
 But that being said, I do think, or like, I would guess
 it's probably contributing to kind of the crappy performance
 of Bitcoin in the past couple of months, like--
 Yeah, and we're whittled to go.
 What about quantum?
 Yeah, I'm a little skeptical of that.
 You know what I'm saying?
 Well, I say I'm a little skeptical.
 Like, I don't doubt that's a thing.
 But we can always assign some valid reason for that.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Like, for example, like, I heard, you know, a few months ago
 that all this Bitcoin's ending up with Sailor in ETFs
 and, you know, long time holders are concerned
 that it's lost its cypherpunk ethos.
 And I'm like, you know, people just sometimes
 have gains of 10,000 X from mining Bitcoin.
 And they can now exit and buy their, you know, villa in Nice
 or, you know, in Mayorka.
 Like, there are reasons that people sell.
 And we try to ascribe, like, you know, whatever
 is the current reason for the market being down.
 We're trying to, like, ascribe that to, you know,
 that that's the reason they're selling.
 And like, in reality, I think people just sell stuff.
 And I don't, I would be very surprised if a lot of ETF selling
 and institutional selling is because of Quantum FUD,
 primarily because those people know exactly zero
 about Quantum.
 So for them to just start eating and, like, you know,
 nuking the chart would surprise me.
 As you don't have to know a lot about something
 to trade on the narrative, though.
 Yeah, but again, I'm just saying, like, it's all sorts
 of narratives at any given point.
 Yeah, I agree with you, right?
 There's chart, there's chart, and then you come up
 with explanations.
 Exactly.
 So almost everything that people, you know, say is white,
 you know, Bitcoin is nuking.
 The market's not doing well.
 It's like, OK, maybe sometimes people just sell and, you know,
 they want to go buy a new house.
 Like, it's not like we don't have to overthink it.
 And also the market is derived from, like,
 trillion different individual preferences, right?
 Like, it's never one single thing at any given point.
 So, like, I don't know.
 All right, third point, really.
 OK, you guys, well, this has been super fun.
 Before we, you know, say goodbye,
 this is going to be the last episode of 2025.
 Do you want to give a 2026 prediction?
 I think, uh, I think 2026 will be better,
 but only because it feels like up only from here, right?
 I do personally feel like we've likely bottomed.
 So I think 2026 will be better.
 Fed's about to inject a bunch of capital into the system.
 So, yeah, you know, we always have to rely
 on these external narrative.
 Everything is just everything is just liquidity.
 So, like, says Kiwi.
 I'm like, all right, that's good enough for me.
 Like, you know, we're just talking about quantum flood.
 We were just talking about the fog.
 I do the exact same thing for bullish reasons.
 I'm like, oh, Kiwi, like, there we go.
 Like, I don't know.
 I don't know what that means, but like, I'll, I'll latch
 onto that narrative.
 No problem.
 You know, yeah, I think, I think 21, like, can't get, I mean,
 I guess it could get a lot worse, but it feels like.
 It feels like people are like max pessimism, like cynicism.
 Like, I don't know, like you go on like crypto Twitter.
 It's like how cynical are people.
 And that's usually good, like, counter signal.
 Like when people are kind of this max cynicism thing
 that's actually one crypto tends to run.
 And then, you know, the opposite when they're like,
 you fork about stuff, man.
 Like buying a narrative.
 So don't make any sense.
 It's actually usually when you want to sell.
 So, you know, I think it's, I think it's good from here.
 - All right.
 Well, you guys, this was super fun.
 Thanks so much for chatting with me
 about all the events of 2025.
 - Thanks for having us.
 - Yeah, thank you.
 Laura's fun.
 Appreciate it.
 - And happy new year, everyone.
 Catch y'all later.
