TITLE: The Future of Money: Latest Trends Shaping Crypto Quant Trading and Market-Making
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mi3pnhkOLBU
VIDEO_ID: Mi3pnhkOLBU

TRANSCRIPT:
(upbeat music)
 - Welcome, welcome, welcome.
 I'm your host, Henry R. Slingen,
 and welcome to the special episode
 of the Future Money Podcast,
 where we go deep in some of the biggest ideas, trends,
 and developments we are seeing in the field of crypto,
 and hopefully empower you with this information,
 and then let you make your own decision
 on what their impact can be on the future of money
 and the future of finance.
 Today, we have a very special episode
 where we're gonna talk about the latest trends
 we're seeing in the field of crypto,
 quant trading, and market making.
 We're also gonna cover a number of issues
 from market infrastructure and the latency arms race,
 to even the role of AI in quant models and risk management.
 So very interesting episode for all of you looking
 at kind of the future of crypto trading.
 This episode is powered in partnership
 with Alchemy Family,
 which we'll talk about during the episode as well.
 And I'm very honored to be joined today
 by fellow Dubai resident, Antonio Agosco,
 who's the co-founder of Marvel Capital.
 Anthony, great to have you on the show today.
 - Thanks for having me.
 - One fun fact about you,
 I think many people know you as the co-founder
 of Marvel Capital is that obviously,
 you're a very fit and healthy guy.
 You recently did 3,000 push-ups on your birthday.
 - On my birthday, you had to be a record.
 Yeah, I'm trying to kind of do records,
 generally in everything that I do,
 and I thought the birthday is a perfect day for that, you know?
 - That's great.
 How much time did it take by the way to 3,000 push-ups?
 - The session was like three and a half hours long.
 The whole thing, it's a run plus push-ups plus pull-ups.
 So it's a mixture.
 - And impressive.
 - But I was pretty tired by the end, to be honest.
 - Many people go just partying and drinking.
 You're there like working out.
 I mean, it puts my high intensity hit classes to shame
 with your 3,000 push-ups.
 But great to have you on board, Anthony.
 We have a lot of interesting topics to talk about.
 You know what's been interesting
 when I get a lot of feedback from my listeners
 and the audience.
 And many people were asking me, Henry,
 can you do an episode about really what's happening
 at the cutting edge?
 You know, for quantrating, the market making,
 with all these different players,
 there's a lot of regulatory changes around the world.
 So I think you're the perfect guy to talk about it.
 But before we really deep dive on it,
 maybe can you share with our listeners,
 for those of our listeners who don't know you,
 a bit more about you about Marvel Capital
 and how you got into this world of crypto-quantrating
 and what you're doing right now.
 - So my background stems from tradfi.
 I started my career in London in 2008,
 pretty much straight out of uni.
 I went to work for ICAP,
 which is the world's largest entity of a brokerage.
 I sat on various desks from fixed-income CDS
 to equity derivatives, to swaps, to FX and EBS desk.
 So, you know, I really had an opportunity to get exposure
 to a lot of, you know, like different desks
 and different markets.
 So I was broken that for a few years,
 then I was hired by a private bank in Russia
 to manage a fixed-income portfolio as a trader.
 Then there was another like quasi-sovereign institution
 that I worked for in Russia for a few years.
 In 2013, myself and a partner,
 we set up a licensed brokerage,
 which we sold to a large banking group in 2018.
 And that kind of coincided with the time
 when, if you remember, in 2017,
 there was this like ICO hype
 and everything was kind of, you know, crazy around the market.
 And that was actually the first time I heard about Bitcoin.
 And, you know, I started reading up on it
 and kind of learning more about it.
 I was super excited about this industry.
 So I thought, you know, given, you know,
 like my company is already kind of in the process
 of being sold, I thought that I would dedicate
 a lot of my time going forward.
 Next couple of decades, probably,
 in this new kind of exciting industry
 and this new exciting asset class.
 So what happened was initially,
 I started out with, you know, like with a venture project,
 which at the time used to be called Terminal Glover,
 which was like an attempt to build a Bloomberg of crypto.
 Because at the time, like nothing like that existed.
 Unfortunately, that didn't work very well.
 You know, we kind of entered like crypto winter
 after we released the MVP in Dubai in 2018.
 Didn't manage to like raise enough assets,
 like enough funds to kind of, you know, keep it going.
 So I decided to like not to focus on that anymore.
 But it gave us actually a lot of interesting insights
 into the market because, you know, at the time,
 we connected to a lot of different venues.
 It was more than 30.
 And we saw there was like so many arbitrage opportunities,
 like literally it was money on the floor.
 So we started doing the kimchi trade for some time
 when it was actually, you know, possible to do like legally
 and properly, we did a lot of other things,
 like basis trade.
 I mean, the spreads were huge, like inefficiencies all around.
 So, you know, we enjoyed those times.
 And then, you know, like on a professional,
 so this has grown into what's now called like Marvel Capital,
 which is effectively like a proprietary trading firm,
 where, you know, we do like HFT market making
 plus various types of statistical arbitrage,
 mostly on centralized exchanges.
 Even though like since recently, we've been adding some,
 some DEXs as well.
 So that's the crypto part.
 I still have a business that does fixed income
 and equity trading, which runs kind of separately
 from Marvel, it's called Annagal Group.
 It's also Dubai Base.
 It's a company set up in 2017, like Audited, et cetera.
 That has a separate team.
 I'm not too much operationally involved in that
 because most of my kind of efforts go towards Marvel.
 Yeah, it's like that when you fall into that crypto rabbit hole,
 it's very, very difficult to come out of it, right?
 So let's go over, do you want to focus on the trading side?
 So let's jump right in.
 I mean, you mentioned the good old days of the kimchi trade
 and those good eras, there was literally money on the floor.
 Maybe can you share with our audience,
 'cause you've been in it from the early, early days,
 can you let me share with our audience,
 how is crypto all go trading, for example,
 evolving over the years, right?
 How has it evolved from the early days
 when you started 2017, where we are,
 and how do you see it evolving over the next couple of years
 as the industry is changing?
 I kind of think that we have seen a fascinating evolution
 into how these things have progressed, right?
 So Algood, like in the crypto industry is borrowing
 a lot of the techniques from the trade file.
 And it's adapting them to the unique aspects
 of the digital assets, right?
 Because they're completely different.
 I mean, there are blockchains involved,
 there's finality and all these things, right?
 And early crypto trading, I think,
 focused on simple momentum and art.
 But over time, now a lot of new players
 and more institutionalized players came in
 and liquidity deepened and exchanges have matured
 and institutional infrastructure has become much better.
 So with time, more complex strategies have emerged.
 And now I think there are a lot of teams
 that are doing some very sophisticated stuff around,
 using AI and machine learning.
 I mean, there are companies out there
 that build their own data centers
 just to process their stuff,
 just to do their own calculations on their like Algoods.
 I mean, it actually is pretty advanced at this moment.
 So the space is very competitive.
 And I think it's gonna get even more competitive,
 to be absolutely honest, which kind of means
 that it poses a lot of threat, I think,
 to the smaller players, especially when the new guys come in.
 And we start talking about, you know,
 the latency arms raise, you know,
 small guys are not gonna have any chances against
 the large guys who are just able to throw money at the wall
 and, you know, do stuff that other people just can't, right?
 But still, at this moment, we see a lot of opportunity
 out there even for, you know, smaller players.
 So the market, I think, in my opinion,
 hasn't properly institutionalized yet.
 There is still not a lot of institutional liquidity
 in crypto as of today,
 even though the infrastructure has, you know, matured
 a little bit, it's still far from what you would expect
 in a proper, mature, tried-by market.
 - So let's focus on that.
 Let's say on the low latency environment, right?
 And market infrastructure,
 who do you think will be the players in the space?
 Do you expect that the crypto native HFT firms
 will come and dominate this market?
 Or are we gonna see the big HFT players
 that we have in a trad-fi world
 to have the big wallets and the infrastructure?
 And arguably some of the experience and expertise as well,
 at least on trad-fi, to come and dominate this world?
 - That is actually a really good question,
 because, yeah, the other day we can have discussed
 that with my partner.
 And we actually think that the space is gonna be,
 like, long-term dominated by crypto native firms.
 The ones that have been around for a while,
 and it would be very difficult for trad-fi firms
 to kind of catch up with them.
 So I think the only way that the huge trad-fi guys
 would kind of enter the space would be through,
 like, acquisitions and things like that,
 through some form of conciliation.
 I mean, for example, I don't know,
 BlackRock or something coming in and saying,
 "Okay, we wanna enter the space,
 "like we wanna build a business out of it.
 "Let's see who is the best in the market, buy them,
 "and then just develop it."
 They can afford to do that.
 So I think that would be like a route
 that these large institutions might pursue.
 But at the moment, I think the crypto native guys are,
 I think they're doing much better than the guys
 who are from trad-fi and just entering the space.
 - Why do you think the crypto native firms
 are doing better than the trad-fi firms coming in?
 Is it knowledge of the space?
 Is it knowledge of the uniqueness of crypto?
 Is it regulatory arbitrage?
 What do you think is giving them the edge?
 - So there is a lot to do with technical variations, right?
 So there is a lot of technicalities that exist in crypto
 that are unique and different to what you would see
 in trad-fi market, so that's one, I guess.
 Then the regulation, yes, probably, if it's a small company,
 if it's nimble, it can get set up in a lot of places
 quickly, et cetera, and large corporations and companies
 just are not able to move at that kind of speed.
 So I think the smaller players are able
 to take advantage of that.
 Very interesting, and then when you look at the,
 we talked about a crypto, let's say, quant trading, right?
 Obviously, you mentioned before, you guys are doing a lot
 of stuff on the C-fi side.
 When you look at the D-fi side,
 like what are some of the opportunities you're seeing
 in the broader, let's say arbitrage opportunities
 that you're seeing in C-fi as we continue,
 but also in D-fi and between both as well?
 - Yeah, so I wouldn't call myself an expert on D-fi
 to be absolutely frank.
 However, we have recently built connectivity
 to some D-fi venues, and we see that there are actually
 a lot of opportunities are being just C-fi and D-fi.
 So we are kind of going that route as well,
 and we will be doing a little bit more in D-fi
 in the coming months.
 The opportunities are there.
 There are also a lot of technical difficulties
 to be faced and solved, but there's definitely
 a lot of opportunity out there, just generally.
 Because I mean, the market is still very nascent,
 it's still very fragmented.
 It's like all over the place, you know?
 It's like you can have a protocol, I don't know,
 set up yesterday and like in two weeks time,
 it's gonna have like a TVL over the billion,
 and there's gonna be a lot of things packaged inside of that
 which are not reflected anywhere else in the market,
 and you know, you can orbit.
 I mean, there's a lot of stuff that just goes
 through the fingers, yeah.
 This is why, you know, when I just reflect
 about what you said, right?
 Like, there's, I can see in a market
 that is very developed, liquid, deep,
 had the big HFT firms, or even the large crypto
 HFT firms can actually dominate, right?
 In a market like the one you mentioned,
 actually being smaller, Nimbo has advantages, right?
 Where they can move around.
 - Absolutely.
 - But the problem there becomes also capacity, right?
 I mean, if there's a capacity of, you know,
 you can make, you know, you can trade for 20, $30 million,
 that's not gonna be interesting for the big HFT firms, right?
 - Yeah.
 - It's not worth it.
 I mean, do you believe that, let's say for the short,
 medium term, agility, nimbleness,
 Trump's basically the whole technology investment
 and low latency environment, in a way?
 - I actually think that you have actually answered
 one of your questions, because if you think about it,
 for the really large institutions
 that have a lot of assets to allocate,
 the market is just not ready for their money,
 if you know what I mean, right?
 Just the size of it, you know,
 there's just not enough liquidity,
 there's not enough market participants,
 there's not enough depth to the market
 for them to actually participate.
 So it's actually one of the reasons it seems to me
 that they're kind of on the sidelines for the moment,
 and they're kind of holding out, you know,
 until better times.
 That's, I think that's what we're seeing.
 But still, you know,
 cryptocurrencies, they keep developing their products,
 and, you know, we've seen a lot of interesting developments
 around custody and self custody and of exchange solutions,
 which kind of make people more comfortable
 around, you know, holding assets in crypto
 and, you know, large institutions that are still,
 I think not fully knowledgeable on these things,
 just because they have their own thing to do,
 and, you know, they're not focusing on this specific industry.
 - Yeah.
 - I mean, there's the opportunity cost for them,
 and still there's so much to be done, ironically,
 and stratified.
 - Exactly.
 - It doesn't make sense.
 I mean, you raise a good point as well, Antony,
 when you talk about it, it's a custody, right?
 Because I can see large stratified firms coming in
 when the, let's say the custody solution is solved.
 And we could argue in certain extent,
 when it comes to CFI exchanges, it's solved, yes.
 Maybe not perfect, but it's by and large here.
 But I think you raise a very good point
 when it comes to, for example, DFI
 becomes significantly more difficult.
 I've trouble seeing a large Wall Street
 or Chicago or Miami firm start doing self-custody
 on their DFI trading.
 I mean, it sounds to me, probably, I mean,
 what do you think is the one infrastructure change
 that is needed?
 That would basically catalyze the entry
 of infrastructure players in particular HFT players,
 for example, or conch firms.
 - I don't think there is one, to be honest.
 I think it's kind of a mixture of regulation
 or quite frankly, absence of regulation,
 because the market is still, it hasn't found its ground
 in the sense that a lot of people are doing things
 that they think are okay, but actually, they're not.
 But it's not written anywhere that they're not, you know?
 So we've seen some developments in the market
 in the past couple of weeks, which kind of, you know,
 affected a lot of like market makers and, you know,
 firms who were doing like token market making, et cetera.
 So these rules, they're just not written anywhere.
 There must be clarity, right?
 There isn't enough clarity at the moment.
 So it's still kind of developing, you know,
 travel rule has been introduced fairly recently,
 Mika, like all these things, they're developing
 literally as we speak, right?
 It's not like it's matured
 and everybody knows the rules of the game.
 So I think regulation is very important, that's one.
 And that, I think, stops a lot of huge guys
 from kind of entering like this as well,
 because, you know, they have risks associated
 with their main business, which they don't want
 sort of crypto to affect, yeah?
 So that's one.
 Then in terms of technical infrastructure and solutions.
 So I think a lot of solutions are already there.
 Maybe they're not at the level where it kind of
 solves all the issues now.
 But I mean, there are custodians out there,
 which are doing a great job, you know,
 like Copper and Fireblocks and Camino and all of those,
 you know, they all have their differences
 and, you know, different setups, et cetera.
 But at the same time, I mean,
 it seems that their business is growing,
 which means, like, which means that, you know,
 these institutions are actually depositing funds.
 You know, so that's all good.
 To be absolutely honest, I think if there will be a way
 of trying to find, you know,
 this balance between self custody and doing it legally
 and making sure that institutions can tap
 into this infrastructure, that would really be the key.
 But at the moment, I think there is still
 not enough kind of infrastructure and solutions out there.
 - Yeah, I agree with you.
 I think there's, on that side,
 there's a lot of work to be done still on the front.
 You know, you mentioned market makers.
 I'll be very keen to get, what's your point of view
 on the crypto market making ecosystem right now?
 Do you believe the quality, the institutional setup
 and the clarity around their activities are there
 at the institutional level yet?
 Or there's a long way to go from that perspective?
 - Definitely a long way to go.
 I think this industry is, you know,
 underegulated in the sense that, you know,
 there's a lot of, like, wash trading,
 I mean, that we see as well in the books.
 There's a lot of, you know, turning up volumes
 just for the sake of doing volumes, et cetera.
 And, you know, there's probably a lot of malpractice
 and like manipulation as well,
 especially around like small talking.
 So like the ones that get just, you know,
 like newly issued, et cetera.
 So it's definitely underegulated,
 but because the market is fragmented,
 it means that people trade on exchanges
 on that, you know, they're licensed on some islands.
 So, and, you know, you can't really enforce things there
 in a way, right?
 So there's a lot of issues still.
 And I think they're not gonna be sold anytime soon.
 It's been the same since pretty much 2017
 that I entered this space in terms of
 how kind of wild west it is.
 I think it's still very much so.
 - Yeah, it's interesting.
 I was just reading, you know,
 there was a first accusations from the US government
 on the US authorities on wash trading
 and market manipulation against the number of,
 they call the market makers.
 I think the term is a bit,
 the use of it too broadly, too generously.
 But it was very, very interesting, actually.
 You're right, so it pump 'em up, pump 'em dumps.
 I mean, the market inflation, big time.
 But you think, you know,
 the, can't we argue that in the market like crypto, right?
 Where you have volatility, where, you know,
 liquidity's not always there.
 The market makers play a very crucial role
 in addressing the liquidity concerns
 that exist in this nascent industry.
 - Of course, I mean, market makers, you know,
 they're crucial in providing liquidity
 to what is still a relatively young
 and kind of volatile market.
 And, you know, unlike traditional financial markets,
 you know, crypto exchanges operate obviously 24/7
 and globally, which creates a, you know,
 significant liquidity challenges,
 especially for newer and kind of smaller coins.
 And, you know, all these automated market making algorithms,
 they kind of help maintain spreads
 and, you know, manage inventory risk.
 But the volatility is still kind of significant for many.
 But, you know, like market makers have to be
 very much adaptive and kind of constantly refine
 their models.
 Like, I've seen numerous times
 because I speak to a lot of teams generally
 and I've seen numerous times
 that something that worked yesterday stopped working today.
 And it's just, you know, like you have to,
 you have to kind of keep going
 and keep nourishing your kind of algos
 and making sure that, you know,
 you're up to speed with developments
 and changes that the market is dictating effectively.
 - Yeah, it's gonna be very interesting
 to see how this industry evolves.
 I think you're right, there's so much shady activity
 in some of these tokens as well.
 But let's see how it evolves.
 One more thing I wanna ask you related to this topic,
 a bit is on the broader quant side,
 the role that AI machine learning is playing
 on in this space, right?
 Let's say, not on the market making side,
 more on the algo trading side, right?
 How do you see the, in your,
 from your perspective,
 how did the advancements in technology
 like in the field of AI and machine learning
 in particular, right?
 Really have kind of shaped or impacted
 the algo trading space in the crypto algo trading space.
 - Actually, I can answer that in two parts.
 So I can answer that from the standpoint of business.
 And also I can answer that from the standpoint
 of algos.
 So for example, specifically in business,
 and I think it happened with us as well.
 So we've actually had to let some people go
 that are junior just because, you know,
 chat GPT does a pretty good job at writing code
 that you can then kind of tweak and, you know,
 so basically what it means is that you need less engineers
 to do the same thing.
 So that's one, I think that's actually very important, right?
 Because now the distinction between a really good engineer
 and a poor engineer is just that much bigger, right?
 So now if you don't use AI in, like in code,
 you kind of lose out, like literally.
 So AI actually enhances any developer out there.
 So that's one.
 And then in terms of the algos themselves.
 So yeah, I mean, we are not particularly advanced on AI,
 even though we're kind of strongly looking into it.
 And I'm generally very interested in AI
 to see how we can apply it to what we're doing at the moment.
 But I know that some teams out there are super advanced
 and they process like, you know,
 huge data amounts to that AI can then, you know,
 self-teach and learn and all of that.
 But, you know, we're not that one.
 So I'm, you know, it's very difficult to understand
 where all of this is going just because we know that,
 for example, AI will change some industries.
 Like for example, you know, it's like self-driving cars.
 It's just a matter of time, but you know,
 it will happen, right?
 Similarly, we could argue that, you know,
 if we get AI to trade, then there at some point
 there won't be any inefficiencies.
 But that doesn't sound particularly excited for me,
 first of all, but secondly,
 I don't think that's coming anytime soon,
 to be absolutely honest with you.
 So there's still a lot of fragmentation,
 there's still a lot of inefficiency out there.
 But yeah, I would definitely say that people who don't
 kind of jump on this bandwagon of trying to leverage,
 you know, AI and ML in what they're doing
 specifically apply to quantitative trading,
 they're gonna lose out like, and, you know,
 at the marathon level, definitely.
 - Yeah, for sure, I can definitely say that happening.
 Were you, when it comes to talent, for example,
 when you're looking for a good quant trader, for example,
 were you finding are good places to find higher people
 who are good quant traders or, you know, until they say,
 'cause you know, there's crypto traders
 and the crypto quant traders, right?
 How are you finding them?
 What do you find is the one tip you have
 for people on that side?
 - It's super difficult, Henry.
 Like if I knew the definitive answer to that,
 I would be there all day long.
 So actually to find really good people in this place
 who have, you know, who have like exact competencies
 that we need and that can kind of generate cash flow.
 And it's super difficult.
 I mean, what we use is, I think like many,
 we employ, you know, external recruiters,
 we have our own sort of in-house recruiters
 and we see next year will be falling more
 kind of, we'll be following some tournaments
 around quantitative trading to see
 if we can kind of get like get some rising stars from there.
 But yeah, generally it's very difficult
 because obviously there's a lot of talk
 and, you know, we've had, for example,
 in the last maybe four months,
 we've had like two or three people coming in
 that on paper looked like Einstein's.
 I mean, actually Einstein's is dumb compared to them.
 You know, literally the people with like patterns
 in like quantitative mechanics, like whatever.
 And they're just not able to,
 they're just not able to perform for some reason.
 Maybe they're very good at like in theory, et cetera,
 but in like practical application to what we do,
 not good.
 So we let them go, yeah.
 But it's very difficult actually.
 I think in this industry, people is key obviously.
 I mean, in any industry, people is key, right?
 Because like organizations consist of people exactly.
 So there's nothing else.
 So, but specifically in quantitative trading,
 it's getting even harder now.
 Yeah.
 - And actually I want to bring the topic
 of alchemy family because obviously,
 providing people and the network is so critical
 in every business, right?
 Can you be sharing with us?
 Obviously, thank you for supporting education in crypto.
 The alchemy family is supportive for the show.
 We really appreciate it.
 Like, you know, can you share more?
 What is alchemy family?
 What are you trying to do?
 And what benefit it can provide to people
 in the crypto ecosystem and those are like,
 like all the crypto professionals, if you want,
 who are trying to connect with people that are like-minded
 and really focused and prioritizing,
 basically getting value of such interactions.
 - Yeah, absolutely.
 So alchemy family is a private members club,
 specifically targeting the audience of sea level
 and founder level reps from, you know,
 HFT firms, proprietary trading firms,
 family offices that allocating to crypto,
 professional, capital allocators, cryptos, managers, hedge funds,
 multi-managers, that kind of thing.
 So anything that basically touches crypto and algal
 from any angle.
 And, you know, there is a kind of deep philosophy
 around alchemy and, you know,
 the project is called alchemy for a reason
 and family also for a reason.
 So in alchemy, there exists 165 or chemical elements
 and basically the club membership is hard-capped
 at 165 people.
 And, you know, the underlying philosophy is that, you know,
 when the right people kind of get together,
 you have this kind of magic, right?
 Because in alchemy, there are four main elements,
 which is air, fire, water, and earth.
 And, you know, this fifth element, ether,
 is effectively amalgamation of these four
 into something of a higher form, right?
 So that's kind of the underlying philosophy.
 So in alchemy, similar to how it is in chemistry,
 like if you need, you know,
 five elements per chemical reaction and then you have four,
 you have six, it just doesn't work, you know,
 just falls apart, nothing happens, right?
 So the idea is that when the right people come together,
 it actually opens doors to, you know,
 a deeper form of collaboration, deeper conversations
 and not just a professional level, but also a personal.
 So actually alchemy is a lifestyle plus business club.
 So it's not just a business club, right?
 So I believe that business is personal.
 Unlike, you know, Americans who say, you know,
 nothing personal, just business,
 I hate that place completely.
 So, you know, business is personal to me,
 and you know, because business is done by people.
 And the idea is to have this highly curated sort of community
 of professionals that can help each other grow,
 not just at professional level,
 but also at personal level, right?
 So, you know, it's a platform for personal
 and professional growth.
 I would put it like this way, right, in one sentence.
 And there's a lot of sort of things
 that we're gonna be doing that are supporting that vision.
 And, you know, one of them is the event
 that we're preparing for now, which will be in November.
 So I'm super excited.
 And I think just generally this format is completely different
 to anything I've seen prior, right?
 I've been to a lot of events, obviously,
 in Trappify and in crypto,
 even the most exclusive ones, you know,
 where you have to pay like quite a lot of money to get in.
 But still, to me, it's still very much surface level,
 in the sense that, you know, it ends up like drinking
 and, you know, dining and all of that and nothing else, really.
 So we're kind of trying to change that, right?
 We are trying to create an experience,
 actually a healthy experience and a transformative experience.
 That's why we call it like an immersive retreat,
 because, you know, first of all, it's like no alcohol.
 Everybody has to be at the same level of consciousness.
 And then we're gonna be doing some incredible practices
 that actually facilitate growth, like personal growth.
 - So this is a retreat you mentioned, right?
 This is, I don't know how much you can share,
 but I love it.
 I think it's called a Magnum Opus, I think, right?
 - Magnum Opus, yeah, yeah.
 - Magnum Opus, what's the goal and what do you guys
 try to do with that?
 Because I think it's quite interesting as a concept.
 - Yeah, so Magnum Opus, from Latin,
 stands as the great deed or the great work, right?
 And the idea is that, you know,
 we wanna bring people together into this retreat,
 which is gonna be happening in the Seychelles.
 And it's only limited to like 50 people.
 And it's gonna be a super transformative
 and immersive experience for like four and a half days.
 And the idea is that by the end of the retreat,
 everybody will kind of know each other by, you know,
 by face, by name, by what they do,
 and how they can sort of add value to each other's lives,
 both on a professional and a personal level, right?
 Because my statistics basically shows that, you know,
 on many events that I've been to,
 like even the token that I've been to,
 like recently in Singapore, right?
 So you end up with like 200 new telegram chats.
 And then at some point, you know, in two weeks time,
 you don't remember 90% of those people,
 like how they look like what you spoke about.
 So it's very much surface-level relationship.
 So my philosophies, I'd rather have 20 real kind of quality
 human interactions and relationships with people
 that are of my level or like, you know, that I like.
 And they are also interested, by the way,
 in kind of personal growth and business,
 because some people aren't quite friendly.
 Some people don't care, to be absolutely honest.
 So, but I'm kind of trying to push the needle
 both at personal level and business.
 So that's really what the club is about.
 And there are a lot of things outside of the retreat
 that members get as part of the membership.
 So yeah.
 - That's interesting.
 I think you're right.
 The example of every time I go to a crypto conference,
 I get all these telegram chats,
 especially in crypto, people have their avatar.
 They don't do his real name.
 It's impossible.
 - All these cheese and all these like weird things.
 - It's always probably, ironically, you know,
 it's very counterintuitive.
 I now give more business cards and I write about it
 because it gives, it connects with people.
 Well, let's think about the Alchemy Family Magni Lopez.
 If anybody of our listeners,
 I know we have a lot of traders,
 we have a lot of hedge funds,
 a lot of family officers are listening to the show.
 If they're interested about the Alchemy Family
 or Magni Lopez, how can they find out more about it?
 - Sure.
 I mean, so, you know, we have a website, obviously,
 where people can submit an application,
 www.alchemy.family,
 and then we have a lot of things in social media,
 LinkedIn, telegram group,
 where we post all new announcements about the club
 and about the event and the participants, et cetera.
 So there's a lot of information on the net about us
 and like anybody can submit an application, yeah.
 - Awesome.
 Alchemy.family.
 One last question before I move to the far round
 on that perspective, Anthony, is,
 I know you're also based in Dubai.
 You know, in the show, we've had the Dubai regulators,
 we've had all the regulators from ADGM,
 the DiFC, to Avara multiple times on the show.
 And you've actually been now in Dubai for a couple of years,
 like, you know, you're talking before
 about regulatory arbitrage at the beginning of the episode.
 How, what's your perspective on what's happening in Dubai
 and the UAE and crypto?
 And how do you think this is going to evolve?
 And if you think it's becoming one of the big hubs
 in the space globally?
 - To be absolutely frank,
 I think it already became the biggest hub in the world
 in terms of, I mean, just think about this, right?
 So the top three exchanges in the world,
 they're headquartered in UAE,
 and they're all on the way to, you know,
 either they already have license
 or they're, you know, getting one soon, right?
 So that's one.
 And I think UAE is doing a great job in that respect
 because, you know, by kind of facilitating this platform
 for these, for these exchanges and for other participants,
 like, you know, HFTs and like props shops.
 I mean, a lot of companies are now setting up in Dubai,
 just for that reason, right?
 And also the tax regime and all of these other benefits.
 So I think it's a very good development
 and I think UAE is a good place to do that,
 to be absolutely honest.
 And in some way, I feel like other countries
 are underestimating what UAE is actually trying
 to achieve here because when all of these exchanges
 on all of this crypto business kind of migrates here,
 and it is migrating, you know,
 the hedge funds are opening here,
 the crypto as managers, like all of these activities
 that are kind of flooding to Dubai now,
 it's actually getting so bad that like,
 I haven't seen such traffic into buy
 for the last kind of couple of years, you know what I mean?
 It's like people are just flocking in,
 like from all over the world, right?
 And, you know, that's the result, right?
 So what they're doing is absolutely right.
 And, you know, definitely support that.
 And I think that will also bring a lot of clarity
 into the market because once these regulators
 are all like fully up and running
 and once all these licenses have been issued,
 they're definitely will be, you know,
 black and white, like rules of the game, et cetera.
 And I think UAE is a good platform for that.
 - Yeah, very interesting.
 I agree with you at traffic levels,
 I've become quite bad on that.
 But it's a, it is what it's, I guess,
 a sign of things working out.
 I mean, you were, you were one of the first ones here,
 I think, to your, your vision on that,
 I think it's been quite interesting.
 So Anthony, we're gonna move on to the far round question.
 I'm gonna ask you quick questions,
 I need a one or two word answers.
 And we're gonna go quick through them pretty quickly here.
 And we can have this ding here
 to keep us honest on the timing side.
 Hope you're ready.
 - Yep.
 - Let's rock and roll.
 Anthony, what is the one thing
 that amazes you the most about the crypto industry?
 - The amount of de-gens.
 (laughs)
 - Absolutely, it never is easy to tell you.
 You're based in Dubai.
 What's your favorite thing to do in Dubai?
 - Driving, actually.
 The roads are great.
 Driving, I like driving here.
 But not look like, not in Dubai,
 like going to rest of Haima to the serpentine, you know,
 like all of those areas, it's nice.
 - That's a good point on that side.
 What is the one thing you think people get wrong
 about Dubai at the UAE?
 - I don't know, most of the people I talk to,
 they love UAE.
 So I have no idea why anybody would complain.
 Except obviously the absence of, you know,
 fresh air and a bit hot like during the summer,
 but otherwise I think it's, yeah.
 - If, what is the one crypto CEO
 that impresses you the most,
 the one crypto CEO that you find the most impressive?
 - I think Star from OKX,
 I think he's doing an amazing job generally.
 I think he's at the forefront.
 He's really trying to, you know,
 to take on the leading exchanges,
 and he's doing a very good job at it,
 to be absolutely honest.
 So his business has grown, I think, very significantly.
 Yeah, I mean, there are a lot,
 like obviously a lot of CEOs out there
 that are doing an amazing job,
 but he just sprung to mind just randomly.
 - They just even got their license here in Dubai as well.
 If there's one, a young university graduate comes to you
 and says, what is the one piece of advice you have for them
 to be a good quant trader?
 - Work hard, move the needle,
 and if you don't make money in three years,
 choose and run a job. (laughs)
 If there's, what is the one quant manager or quant firms,
 you know, you would love to have as an intern.
 From all the, even on Tratify.
 If there's one person in the quant industry,
 would love to hire, who would have person B?
 - XTX, somebody from XTX.
 - Really interesting, what is that?
 - Well, they are doing pretty well, it seems.
 They've built a very good business.
 So it's actually one of the firms that we are aspiring to.
 I think they're very knowledgeable
 about what it is they're doing
 and they have an amazing team, so.
 - I love it.
 You're a big guy who works out.
 I mean, you just did earlier,
 you had 3,000 push-ups on your birthday, which is crazy.
 What is the one workout or that you would love to do?
 If you could do, what kind of workout
 you could do for the rest of your life, what would it be?
 - It would be the Provilo.
 I'm not sure if you know what that is though.
 - No, what is Provilo?
 - No, Provilo.
 So it's like, when I lived in London,
 they used to be like these studios,
 but they've opened now in Dubai as well.
 So actually, you're being hung by your arms and legs,
 and you do like stretch in like that kind of thing.
 It's actually really, really good.
 So to be absolutely honest, I think like three years ago,
 I had a massive protrusion in my back, like lower back.
 And that thing just fixed me completely.
 No other doctor was able to do anything
 and this thing just sold it.
 - I'm gonna give it one a try, actually.
 I heard about that actually.
 Quick one, if you could go back in history,
 what is the one period of history you would love to live in?
 - The 1800s.
 - Really, why is that?
 - The one reason I think was good is because there was
 something called that we don't find very often now,
 in men specifically called honor, right?
 So at that time, if you didn't have honor,
 you were challenged at a duel, right?
 These days, if somebody says something
 and does nothing about it, no duel sucks, right?
 So you have a lot of (beep)
 as a result.
 Previously, if you say something,
 you have to stand up for it.
 Otherwise, you go to a duel.
 - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 - Very good point, actually.
 Like the being a man of your world, I love that.
 I love that.
 And to finish it off, Anton Agosco of the co-founder
 of Marvel Capital, this is a traditional question
 of whoever comes on my show.
 If you could have lunch or dinner
 with one person that are alive.
 Lunch or dinner with one person that are alive,
 who would you have lunch or dinner with?
 - Jim Simmons.
 - Oh, wow.
 - And why is that?
 - He's a great guy, and he said like,
 I've actually watched a lot of his interviews on YouTube,
 and I read about him, you know, he,
 I think he built like one of the most successful businesses
 like in this space in general.
 He actually found the secret source
 or like the secret formula, if you like.
 And just a lot of the stuff that he says
 really resonates with me.
 So yeah, that can be that perspective.
 - So Anthony, how can people find out more
 about you, Marvel Capital?
 And also the alchemy family,
 how can they get in touch with you
 or find out more about what you guys are doing?
 - So I think the best route is the website
 and the social media.
 And also we're gonna be sponsoring the AIM Summit,
 which is in Dubai.
 And following that, we're gonna have like
 a few private dinners prior to the Magnum Opus.
 So we're gonna be around, I think.
 - Awesome.
 Well, Anthony, thanks for being on the show today.
 It was really insightful.
 And I'm gonna try that new workout as well.
 I think it's gonna solve a lot of my back pains as well
 on that one.
 - Let's go make sure you're on the show.
 - Yeah.
 Thank you, Anthony.
 Thank you guys everybody for listening
 on this episode of the Future of Money podcast.
 Again, it thanks you guys for your support.
 Really what I love.
 And if you have any ideas of topics you want to discuss,
 you want me to talk about cover in future episodes.
 If you're pleased to let us know in the comments,
 we're always there.
 And again, also a big thank you for all of you
 for the support of my latest kids book.
 You know, the coding crypto does become really
 the number one you release in its category guys.
 Thank you very much for that.
 It means a lot of your support for all the educational content
 we've been doing now since 2016.
 Thank you very much everybody.
 And see you guys all soon for another episode
 of the Future of Money podcast.
