TITLE: Most Tokenization Projects Fail. Here’s Why One Succeeded: Bits + Bips
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W1Tr6esVR8k
VIDEO_ID: W1Tr6esVR8k

TRANSCRIPT:
There isn't this panacea of money on blockchain that you can't get to anywhere else. Money is
 really smart and it can get to whatever it wants to. It doesn't need the blockchain to do that.
 And so in the beginning, you're introducing something different that introduces friction.
 And so, you know, in the beginning, it isn't that it's cheaper for me to finance XYZ on
 blockchain or trade PDQ on blockchain or whatever it might be. It's actually, you know, a lot of
 circumstances is going to be more difficult to do it. But in the long run, it will make sense.
 Hi, everyone. Welcome back. My name is Steve Erlich. I'm the executive editor
 at Unchain. And in this particular segment, it's going to be the bits and bits, the interview.
 Are you a builder who needs to add on-chain trading to your product?
 The Uniswap Trading API from Uniswap Labs offers plug-and-play access to some of the deepest
 liquidity in crypto. It's on-chain execution at an enterprise level. More liquidity, less complexity.
 Visit hub.uniswap.org to learn more. I'm here with Mike Kagny, founder and CEO of Figure.
 And we're here to talk about figures, I think, really terrific year. Successful IPO, and they've
 really found product market fit with regards to putting HELOC loans on their own blockchain
 called provenance. I wanted to speak with Mike to kind of get a sense of what the year has been
 like for him. Now the tokenization has become a very hot topic again, sort of what helped him
 succeed when, frankly, a lot of tokenization products or projects that have been around
 over the last 10 years have failed, and kind of what the future of tokenization means for his business.
 So welcome, Mike. Thanks for joining us. Thanks for having me. Great to speak with you again.
 So yeah, it's funny. Sometimes when I talk to people about figure,
 most people on crypto probably don't own homes yet. They don't know what a HELOC is.
 And when I use that term, they look at me like I'm speaking to your push. So can you just briefly
 explain what a HELOC is and why it's a product that's very well suited to be tokenized?
 Sure. So a HELOC stands for Home Equity Line of Credit, and it's effectively an open and
 mortgage. So generally when we think about mortgages, we think about getting a 30-year
 fixed rate mortgage and you're paying principal interest every month. At the end of 30 years,
 you pay the loan off. A HELOC is also a mortgage. It's secured by your home, but it's open-ended.
 So I might have a $100,000 HELOC. I might pay $50,000 down, and then I can borrow the $50,000 back up
 again. And a lot of people think of HELOC as a second-line product. So there's a mortgage,
 and then behind that there's a HELOC. But one of the fastest areas of growth that we found is
 HELOC in the first-line position, so using it instead of a mortgage. And one of the things we've
 been able to do over time is get the rate on that HELOC in first-line position to be comparable
 to Fannie and Freddie rates for conventional mortgages. And this has been a huge advantage
 for us in mortgages under, say, $300,000 because the way the industries evolved to do a Fannie
 May or a Freddie Mac eligible mortgage costs about $13,000. And so if it's a $200,000 mortgage,
 $13,000 is six-and-a-half points. There isn't a market you can sell the loan in for six-and-a-half
 points. Because of the efficiencies we've captured through blockchain and the capital
 markets that we've built out through blockchain costs us less than $1,000 to produce that mortgage.
 And so we have over 250 partners now that use our technology to originate loans, including
 10 of the top 20 mortgage companies. And the fastest area of growth is HELOC in first-line
 position for these sub $300,000 balances. And we think that's an area that has huge opportunity.
 It's almost greenfield because no one was doing those loans before because you couldn't do them
 profitably. So even though it's in the mortgage space, which we think is relatively saturated
 and competitive, that's actually a greenfield domain that we've been able to lean in on and grow.
 Gotcha. Maybe, forgive me, maybe you can just explain that a little bit more. I'm familiar with
 HELOCs. I have one on my home, but it's really kind of taken out as maybe just an emergency
 fund in case I need something or if I know people take them out if they want to perhaps do an
 addition on their home or some type of renovation. But it's always, again, like a backup plan or
 a secondary source of funds. Can you just explain really what it means for it to be almost like
 an actual mortgage replacement? Because I frankly hadn't heard that before.
 Yeah, and that was why when we started Figure, we wanted to bring a tangible solution to market
 and we chose a credit. We said we could originate aggregate securitized assets on
 blockchain, save AFI business points of cost. And we needed a credit vehicle. We could originate
 that I knew that it would be a Herculean task to convince the buy side to start using blockchain,
 the sell side to start using blockchain. And so I didn't want to fight it out with
 SoFi on personal loans or rocket on first-line mortgages. And the area to me that I thought
 was relatively untapped was home equity line of credit because historically it's been used for
 exactly the reason why you have yours. It's the rainy day line of credit. And I can tell you,
 in the lending world, you don't like lending to people when it's raining out. You're like
 lending it to when it's sunny out. So what always stuck with me when I was at SoFi, we would sell
 huge pools of unsecured consumer loans. And our borrowers tended to be prime. They tended to own
 homes. They tended to have a decent amount of equity in the home. And the question we always
 got from the capital markets was, why aren't they taking a HELOC? Why aren't they taking the
 second? Why are they taking this unsecured loan? The rate's much higher. The reality is they're
 doing that because the process was so much easier. We could underwrite an unsecured loan in a couple
 of minutes and fund literally that day versus the HELOC process, which was the same as the mortgage
 process, which was 45 days of misery. You're producing income statements and tax returns and
 all this stuff. And so we felt that if we could bring the personal loan efficiency into the HELOC
 marketplace, we could actually get people who wanted to take the loan out for immediate purpose.
 And so what's unique about this HELOC is when you take $100,000 HELOC from us,
 we're dispersing $100,000 to you. Now you can pay that down and pay it back up. It's an open line,
 but it's a fully dispersed limited origination. And so it's really oriented more towards an immediate
 use case. I'll draw it when I need it. And again, what's interesting is the first-line product,
 so using a HELOC and first-line, that's actually prevalent in other countries. Like Australia,
 that is what an Australian mortgage is. It isn't a 30-year fixed product. It's an open line that you
 draw against your home because it's cheaper to do that than on an unsecured basis. And so
 we felt that we would have a lot of appetite for it. We also felt it had some virtuous credit
 signaling because if you had a borrower who could take an unsecured loan or put their home up as
 collateral and get a lower rate, whether they're going to pay the loan or not, which one they choose
 tells you a lot of that. And so it ended up being a great asset class for us to start with because
 nobody was doing it the way that we do it. And it really provided a lot of incentive for the
 buy side of the union and start taking that loan down. Okay. So let's just, again,
 because I want to make sure everyone watching and listening stays with us for the whole
 conversation. Can you just briefly walk me through the lifecycle from, I guess, origination to
 disbursement. So I guess the loan being sold through your blockchain to your capital market
 partners so that everyone kind of has a visualization in mind of how this works.
 Yeah, I'll do that. And then I'll talk about some of the challenges that we had early on
 because of blockchain. And I think this is illustrative of why a lot of these RWA projects haven't taken
 off because of some of these challenges. And I can talk through how we navigated that.
 But basically, what we do is we ingest the data from the loan. So credit, title, property,
 income directly into the blockchain. And by the way, one correction that we use a
 blockchain called provenance, which we built that we don't own. It's a public chain. So it's public
 blockchain. And the importance of that is the blockchain's immutable. And so what happened in 2008
 was a bunch of lenders got in trouble because they would go in and modify loan documents,
 modify income numbers, modify loan to value numbers. And it created a lot of uncertainty.
 And the rating agencies coming out of that said, you know what, going forward to get a AAA rating
 on a mortgage deal, we have to audit every loan. And it's $500 long. That's the scope of the audit.
 Well, because of the way we ingest data into blockchain and the immutability of that,
 the rating agencies have lowered our requirements down to 20 to 30% of the loans and about $100
 a loan. And so this manifests to, you know, a couple million dollars of savings per securitization
 transaction, per AAA rated deal, which is about 50 basis points, you know, in terms of the cost
 of the lifecycle. But effectively, we originate the asset native on chain. So the loan is on the
 blockchain. We pledge that asset into a warehouse provider, like a Goldman, for example, although
 this is changing because we're starting to use DeFi. We could talk about that as well. But we've
 led you into a warehouse provider. And one of the things that I'd been pushing Goldman on for years
 was, look, you should take the loans on on chain. You should use Dart, which is a registry service
 that we have to encumber those loans. Because the way we've historically done warehouse pledging
 is, you know, I sent a spreadsheet to the, to the bank, full of loans, they send me a bunch of money,
 and then they spend five days figuring out if I lied to them or not, right? And sometimes they
 can't figure that out. And the tri-color was a great example of this, where there was a massive
 amount of fraud. Well, you can't have that fraud on blockchain. And when Goldman finally started
 using it and realized, Hey, we don't just spend five days, we know immediately whether you give
 us loans or not, we've de-risked this transaction, meaning not only can we get you the money,
 faster, we could actually give you more money, meaning we make more money. And we don't have a
 staff that has to do all this reconciliation. You know, they really leaned in and embraced it. And,
 you know, our warehouse providers and partners all leverage that now. But we aggregate these loans up,
 and then ultimately, they're sold into either portfolio buyers like insurance companies or
 they're securitized, where they're aggregated and turned into into debt. The servicing subsequent
 cash flows all happen on chain. And the importance of this is, you know, we think about like, why do
 we use blockchain? There's three reasons why we use it. One is we get some transactional efficiencies
 at the top, like the AAA rating costs, or the warehouse pledging costs. And, you know, we've
 been able to capture over 100 basis points of efficiency out of that. We get liquidity,
 but liquidity doesn't come on its own. There's a misrepresentation of blockchain that, you know,
 if I put something on blushing, it becomes liquid. And obviously, that's not like what happened to,
 you know, for liquidity, you need to be equity and homogeneity and marketmaking and all these
 other things. I know. Oh, it's got to say, I know when we spoke in the past, like that was the
 issue that plagued many other tokenization projects, like you can do the initial issuance,
 but then you don't have this liquid secondary market. Yeah, 100%. And this is why there's a lot
 of projects that are that are well intended, you know, putting private company stock on blockchain.
 Well, of course, you could do that, but there isn't a reason that it's going to trade persistently,
 right? Or putting an office building on blockchain. Well, sure, you can do that, but who's going to
 trade it? And yeah, this joke with you before is why I don't get invited to RWA conferences,
 because I always say these are stupid ideas. But the, the, the construct is we've created a liquid
 market because all the remittance data, the principal and interest payments come into the
 blockchain. And so I have a pool of loans that are all like, have a common agreement in terms of
 buying and selling. And that I see real time, whether they're performing or not, and that's created
 liquidity. So, you know, if you go to CoinGecko, for example, I think we're the 11th largest
 crypto asset by a market by TBL. So they were behind Dogecoin, and they had a Cardano last
 dollar that somewhere in that neighborhood. And, but you see our volume every day, and it's, you know,
 100, hundreds of millions of dollars, loans that trade because of this efficiency that we
 create in this liquid marketplace. But the real value prop to me is DeFi. And it's, you know,
 connecting sources and uses of capital directly. And what we started doing last year is we started
 saying, well, look, what do we bring some loans over to DeFi? Because DeFi historically has been
 crypto, right? Because for, for, for DeFi lending to work, the asset has to be liquid. This is another
 limitation that folks have and don't fully understand, because you're doing an asset-based
 loan. So you're not underwriting the asset. You're actually underwriting how liquid it is,
 how volatile it is, and what the advantage rate is. And so, so we, we brought $10 million of loans
 over and finance them cheaper than we could in our warehouse. And we brought another $10 million
 over and did it again. And brought $100 million over doing it now. Now we're going to bring a
 billion dollars over. And we're going to start migrating more and more of the capital structure
 to decentralized finance. And go ahead. When you say DeFi, I'm curious if you can just be a little
 more specific on which platforms. I mean, is it just like, like open DeFi or, I know, like, like
 groups like Ave, Compound, that I mean, they have like institutional, like, like, walled garden
 versions of DeFi. Right. So we, we have a DeFi platform called democratized prime,
 which is open, although KY seed, but we recently launched on Solana platform called Hastra.
 And Hastra is, is effectively an open protocol that people buy wrapped yields on Hastra,
 which is our, our yielding security, but wrapped in, in Solana, pledged into Hastra,
 Hastra applies capital into our DeFi protocol, generate yield. And then that staking token can be
 looped on Camino or, or traded on radium. So it is actually in the broad DeFi ecosystem. It's not
 in a walled garden. And what's interesting about that is that activity lowers mortgage rates for
 US consumers. So you think about, you know, on Camino, they, they prevent US users from participating.
 So we have a bunch of non US capital that is participating in actually lowering the cost of
 mortgages to US consumers coming through this DeFi construct, which is why DeFi is so important
 to me. And I think, you know, one of the things I've been doing recently is advocating for the
 market structure bill around protections for DeFi. And, you know, what, what I can bring to the table
 that's a little unique from some of my peers is tangible use cases to senators how this helps
 their constituents. So like, we're not, you know, from, from Georgia on the Democrat side,
 we funded over a billion dollars alone in Georgia. And, and his, his constituents saved money because
 of DeFi, right? And so, so we've been advocating very hard on, on that front. And, but, but effectively,
 what, what I think ultimately happens is, I think you're going to get a migration out of bank
 deposits on the genius act because of the stablecoin legislation. I think that money gets reapplied
 into, into DeFi. And I think what you're going to see is assets move from the basics and liabilities
 move from the bank balance sheet onto a DeFi protocol. And that's, that's what I'm most excited
 about. I am too. And we're going to talk about that in a lot more detail. But first, we just have
 to take a quick break to hear from some of our sponsors. Hey, founders and developers, if you're
 looking to bring on-chain trading to your product, wallet, or platform, check out the new Uniswap
 Trading API from Uniswap Labs. It's your plug and play gateway to global on-chain liquidity,
 no deep crypto experience required, and no need to manage complex integrations or ongoing maintenance.
 With the Uniswap Trading API, you'll get enterprise grade on-chain execution,
 combining both on-chain and off-chain sources for the most competitive prices.
 Simply put, more liquidity, less complexity. And this isn't just any API. It connects directly
 to the Uniswap protocol, which has securely processed over $3.3 trillion in total volume,
 with zero hacks. So stop worrying about liquidity infrastructure and focus on building your product.
 Get access to the same liquidity that powers billions in swaps through one powerful API.
 Visit hub.uniswap.org to learn more. Okay, Mike. So before we left off,
 you started getting into what's happening in DC and sort of how it's important to
 get legislation right in order to kind of clear the pathway for products like yours that have
 product markets fit. But first, I just want to ask one other quick question about the mechanics of
 how this works before we get into that. Stable claims. When investors, you issue the
 money in fiat dollars, I guess, to the HELAC participants. When people buy the tokenized
 securities when you securitize the loans, are those done in fiat or are they done in stable
 coins? And I know that you recently launched your own yield bearing stable coin. You actually
 registered it with the SEC. But when I checked, that's all uptake is still small. It's really,
 I think it was like $3.4 million market cap. I think it's-
 I think we're at a couple hundred million in market cap right now, of course. So you might
 have been looking at some stale data. So it's growing. It's starting to take off. And what we're
 doing is if you think about our ecosystem, there's loan funding, which we're still funding in
 dollar fiat, unless users will like to be funded in stable. There's the pledging to the warehouse,
 where we're now migrating that to using stable coin. So rather than when I pledge the loans,
 Goldman sends me a wire for dollars, I'm starting to pledge the loans and Goldman sending me yields,
 which is our stable coin, our yielding coin. There's loan sales, which we're also migrating
 to stable coin settlement. So, you know, I sell Apollo of $200 million loans, or you're sending
 me $200 million of stable coin. Again, yields. And the securitization is kind of the last leg,
 where what we'll start doing in 26 is issuing those securitization bonds native on-chain,
 because today we don't. Today, other than some limited exceptions, where we have done some on-chain
 issuance, generally we've been issuing those securities in traditional form, you know, as DTTC
 registered securities. What you'll start seeing in 26 is blockchain native issuance, and that
 will then allow for stable coin settlement. So there's no asynchronous process of a wire versus
 the security settlement. So, you know, reducing the post-trade audit and reconciliation expense.
 And which stable coin? Is that your stable coin, or is it USDC?
 So we use yields within our ecosystem, although yields is convertible in the USDC 24/7.
 And so, you know, that marketplace is always open. But we tend to use yields because it
 affords us some benefits that traditional stable is done for it, including the interest that pays.
 Gotcha. And I am curious too. I mean, given how much you work with Wall Street banks, I mean,
 what kind of conversations are you having with them about their own stable coins, now that we're
 in kind of a post-genius world, even though the law hasn't been fully enacted yet, and
 until organized deposits, which from my perspective, I know all the benefits of stable coins. But
 for like regulated financial institutions, tokenized deposits seem to be a much more
 capital efficient tool. Maybe there's additional savings there that could be
 passed over to your customers. Yeah, I'm not sure how valuable the tokenized deposits are.
 And only in the sense of the way I look at the stable coin ecosystem is, you know,
 stable coin is not proliferated the way that we expected it to, because it doesn't really have
 utility, right? I can't go to Starbucks and buy coffee with stable coin. And so that limitation,
 you know, both limits its use cases and also limits its disruptive capability and value creation
 capability. The genius act is going to change that. And what we're seeing is JP Morgan leaning
 in pretty heavily around the idea of building a new payment rail or payment infrastructure.
 You know, they just move JP coin off of their proprietary blockchain, which was a fourth version
 of Ethereum onto base, which is obviously an L2 EVM. But they're going to move it into broader
 Ethereum mainnet, I'm sure. And you know, you're going to see what I think is JP Chase versus the
 rest of the world. And JP Chase looks at interchange and says, look, we've got an issuing processor,
 an issuing bank, Visa, MasterCard, merchant choir, merchant bank. Why do we need the issuing
 processor visa and the merchant acquirer? Like, why, why don't we just have an issuing bank, us,
 and a merchant bank, us. And we trade on our rail. And I think they're going to lean in and do this.
 And I think it's going to bring utility at least into that version of coin. And I think if I'm a
 regional or super regional bank, this should be an absolutely terrifying idea to me. Because
 they're going to come out through my liabilities and they're going to get it because they're going
 to be able to offer stablecoin value that I can't do. And the token is deposit isn't a defensive
 mechanism to that because I'm not going to be able to use it as utility, right? I'm not going to be
 able to go buy Starbucks coffee with a token is deposit. So, you know, I, I think that the rest of
 the banks have to think about, you know, do we build around a common coin that's a little bit
 like herding cats trying to get, you know, every other bank to lean in to do that? We think yields
 is an actually interesting opportunity for the banks to lean in and support because, you know,
 yields is defensive against JP coin because it pays interest. And yields, we can hold
 treasuries or bank deposits so we can keep the liabilities of the bank from their customers on
 their balance sheet. And so there's a value prop off of that. So, I think it'll be really interesting
 to see, you know, how this evolves. But, but what I can tell you is, you know, the, the sell side
 in particular, the big banks, the Goldman's, the Morgan Stanley's and certainly the JP's,
 they are moving into blockchain and doing in my mind much more innovative and disruptive work
 right now than, you know, the coin bases of the world are. And, and this has been interesting to
 me to see. And I, I saw this firsthand because, you know, we, we haven't asked one about issuing
 figure stock native on blockchain. We put it out a couple of weeks ago and we're hoping that we do
 this. I call it a second IPO, although it's all secondary, it's not primary, but doing it in January.
 And, you know, the, the speed at which the large institutions, if you look at the S1,
 JP and Morgan Stanley are on the cover, they're underwriting the deal, right? I was sort of at
 a Goldman and Morgan Stanley, I had a brain cramp, they're saying JP, Goldman and Morgan Stanley
 are on the cover and they're underwriting the deal. And, you know, they understand the potential
 disruption of this. And, you know, eliminating DTC, eliminating NASDAQ, you know, replacing prime
 brokerage with DeFi, you know, this is a wholesale replacement of an equity capital market piece.
 But, you know, the, the traditional blockchain players or crypto players, I, I don't think
 understand or have, have been as aggressively leaning into this opportunity set. And, you know,
 that's been a little bit surprising to me, but, but maybe not, because I think, again, with the
 legalization of blockchain and crypto, you know, I kind of view it. When, when I started SoFi,
 I went to the very first lend it and, and it was like the bar C not a Star Wars, right? It was a
 weirdest group of people that you ever see. And, you know, it was just insane. And two years later,
 it was just all suits. And so, I think we're at the all suits inflection point that's about
 to happen in blockchain. There's been a lot of people lamenting about this on on crypto Twitter.
 But I think, I think it's actually we're at that point. It's going to happen.
 That's good. But for me, that's been I don't think I've worn a suit in years since I don't even
 think I can fit in any of mine anymore. I hope I hope no one gets married or dies because those
 are what two reasons I break it out. Yeah. And yeah, most times even when I wear a jacket underneath,
 it's probably like Philadelphia Eagle shorts or something like that. All right. So let's go back
 to the regulation, because I know you started talking about that. You've been going to DC a lot
 and sort of like, it seems like really making the case to help ensure that the Senate in particular
 gets market structure right, particularly when it comes to DeFi, which is a very thorny issue.
 So maybe you could expand a little bit more on what you've seen and heard there.
 Yeah. I mean, in our situation, there's three things that we're advocating for.
 When one is around the ability to settle non currency or non security transactions with yields,
 the security offer regulated frameworks. And I haven't used an ATS or a national market exchange.
 One is the modernization of the transfer agent rules where, you know, historically,
 transfer agents have been forced to do best effort to get an in an address. We think
 wallet address is sufficient because it's really just a way to drive quorum.
 But more relevant is the protection of DeFi as a peer to peer transaction, not a security offering.
 And, you know, I think that what I've heard, there's a lot of frustration on the hill
 around people coming and saying, "Oh, this is DeFi. This is DeFi when it in fact is not DeFi.
 There's a centralized actor or player." And they're really just trying to avoid security
 registration and, you know, use it as a shortcut for that. I don't, you know, certainly the stuff
 we're advocating for, that's not what we're trying to do. We truly do run a peer to peer
 lending transaction marketplace. When I say run it, it's a smart contract that sits out that's
 vitally governed by everyone. It was a, I don't know, for you, it slips right where we say
 you run a peer to peer. It's a, you create it, I guess, a peer to peer.
 Yeah. And that's, yeah. And so we do that at the behest of hashholders, which are, you know,
 that's the utility token of provenance. And they can vote us out of not having anything to do with
 that protocol. Take something they want to do that. It's, you know, we don't own it per se.
 And the SEC has taken the position that that is, you know, if I had to be a protected transaction,
 it doesn't fall under a securities regulation. But that's the position, right? That's not the law.
 And so what we need to do is get legislation codified for that protection. So, especially
 we don't lose it in the case that, you know, Chairman Atkins leaves and somebody else comes in with a
 different view. What do you see as kind of the litmus test or the lines of delineation between a
 true peer to peer DFI protocol and another project or that engages in DFI theater or stage dressing?
 Yeah. I think it's all around intermediation. So if at any point you are touching the transaction
 between party A and party B, that's not a decentralized transaction, right? So, you know, a true
 bilateral transaction doesn't require intermediation. And, you know, to a second degree, it's the governance
 of the mechanism that connects those parties where, you know, if you have exclusivity to that governance,
 that's also not decentralized because you can change how it works and so forth. So it really
 needs to be, you know, the community that that votes for and controls and administers those smart
 contracts. And that doesn't mean you can't earn economic off it, right? Smart contract can say,
 I'm getting 2% of every transaction. And again, the community could vote to modify that or change
 that. But those are to me the core litmus tests. And again, I think the challenge in DC is you're
 having to bring a lot of folks up the curve on the education side because they haven't had to think
 about this in the prior four years and now they're immersed in it. And also, you know, as I said,
 one of the things I'm really advocating for is giving tangible use cases to a lot of the senators
 in terms of how DFI is benefiting their constituents, else reducing their loan rates.
 And the extensibility of that, you know, way beyond the mortgages that we do into almost every type
 of credit. Yeah, I don't want to belabor this point, but this is a very hard issue right now,
 as you won't know. What about voting power? I'm curious like how much hash or voting power
 figure has on on provenance and and if you do anything like some projects do to maybe restrict
 the amount of governance that you you're allowed or the amount of voting power you're allowed to
 deploy on a particular proposal. And I actually just forgot what my second question was. Oh, yes.
 Some people might be confused how a DFI protocol that does AML KYC users can also be decentralized.
 So maybe talk to those two items, please. Yeah, and the second one's a great question. And
 let me talk to the first one. So we, as you know, we built we built provenance. And at one point,
 we had the majority of the token, but but in that case, it wasn't decentralized. We effectively
 distributed back to the foundation or burned such that we now have 20% of the token. And my
 expectation is that we will do a series of actions that burn another 25 to 50% of that.
 So, you know, we're already a minority holder of utility token to the to the protocol so we can't
 influence quorum. But our goal would be to get down, you know, at the 10% level or even slightly
 below that, not through sales, but through some some burning function as it relates to
 activity that we do within the ecosystem. The second point that you raised, I think people confuse
 decentralization and anonymity. And I don't I don't view those things as the same, right? So
 decentralization is, you know, there there isn't a single point that is, you know,
 intervening transactions or driving the structure in terms of the transactions. It's a community
 quorum that that effectively does that. So I could build the smart contract with the subsequent
 management and adjustment of that smart contracts done through quorum. That smart contract could
 require that you have a KYC certificate in your wallet to participate in that ecosystem. And
 there's nothing orthogonal to Define doing that. And, you know, and the community could vote to
 not require that. You know, again, it's it's different functions. But but I don't think that
 that decentralization and anonymity are the same thing. And too often they get conflated
 in blockchain and in crypto. And some people feel, you know, we'll die on that hill. And I just don't
 think that's the hill to die on. Okay. No, I appreciate that. Interesting. So let's look a
 little bit ahead. What's life been like now as a public company? How are you deploying all those
 funds that were raised? And I'd like to just get a sense from you on kind of what you see as the
 as the TAM for for HELOCs. But your background as I mean, as the founder of SoFi is in broader
 consumer lending. I have to imagine you have a lot of plans and thoughts on ways to sort of
 leverage the playbook that you've built here into other forms of credit provisioning.
 Yeah, so and a couple interesting points. I mean, one is I think it's great being a polar
 company. And and you know, you have to deal with the fact that the market votes on whether
 they like you or not every day. And so I just I just don't look at the stock. And I just think
 about things a very long term time horizon. So, you know, that's I've been relatively robust
 in dealing with that. It's good advice that investors as a general rule some anywhere.
 Yeah, in Jeff, well, you know, I like, you know, figures at the very beginning of a long journey.
 And if you own figure, you're looking at this as a long term opportunity, not as in your term
 flip. And and so, you know, it really doesn't matter what happens to the stock price day over
 day. It matters, you know, what happens in five, 10 years in terms of our ability to execute into
 things that are are creative and transformative. And I think we're doing that. And I think that,
 you know, certainly within the mortgage sector, and especially now that we're competing in
 firstly, mortgage, you know, that's a $3 trillion a year industry. And so, largest credit segment
 in the world. And that one, you know, I feel very, very confident in our ability, especially that
 sub three to $300,000 vertical to continue to make inroads against Fannie and Freddie.
 And, you know, I think it's pretty crazy to think about a blockchain native mortgage company
 out executing Fannie and Freddie Mac in the first thing mortgage space. But, you know,
 we've been able to do that. And, you know, again, I think we'll continue to do that.
 But philosophically, and I'm glad you brought up so far, because, you know, when, when we build
 so far, we thought a lot about this super app construct, right? And the whole value was cross
 sell. We get this customer in, and they're super high value. And we're going to be their lender,
 but also going to be their banker and their broker or their wealth manager and all these other things.
 And I, you know, there's not certainly the extension that that Robin, but has taken in their ambitions
 to be super app. And I think, you know, Coinbase announcing stock trading yesterday, albeit, you know,
 in the old antiquated way, not the new cool way. You know, everyone wants to, or a lot of folks
 want to migrate towards that super app. I've taken a different philosophical approach
 that, you know, we'll talk more about as we get into 26, which is, I believe that rather than the
 centralized construct, I think it's self custody wallets and distributed applications. And I think,
 you know, you and I will carry all the relevant information we need, you know, whether it's our
 assets or liabilities or identity or KYC, what have you in our wallet. And we will choose what
 venue we trade equity on, what venue we trade crypto, and what venue we borrow against assets,
 what venue we lend against assets as distributed apps. And so, you know, what you really want to
 do is build some combination of the best wallet experience, plus the best D app experience,
 and compete in that vertical, recognizing that you don't have this, this control of the customer
 anymore. The customer is going to have this, this ability to exercise democracy in terms of
 where they go. But to do that, you know, right now, our wallet experiences in crypto are not great.
 And, you know, they're, they can be very intimidating. They can be very nonintuitive. They can be very
 cumbersome. And so, you know, I think there's some work that needs to be done around the wallet
 experience. But, you know, the idea of taking my wallet attaching to a DAX that's trading securities,
 you know, could be an alternative trading system, and not requiring an introducing broker, right,
 not needing Robinhood or Schwab to use that account to access the marketplace, but just access it
 directly with my wallet. That's a very powerful introduction and disruption to the market. And
 that's one of the things we're pushing hard on in terms of our equity offerings is allowing such
 market access. And we think that's a precedent that that other companies are going to fall behind us
 on. All right. So, as we get ready to wrap up here, I wanted to get your sense of, I mean,
 just broader tokenization landscape. I forget how big it is outside of just stablecoins,
 but they're stablecoins. There's money market funds, there's treasuries, now there's stocks.
 As I'm sure you're well aware, there's a few different credit, like structured credit funds
 that have also been been tokenized, I think from some of your own business partners.
 Like, what do you make of all this? And I know you mentioned before, you have some lessons learned
 that from your own experiences and from what you've seen other tokenization projects do that didn't
 really get that escape velocity. Like, what do you think needs to happen for all the hype to sort of
 really manifest itself properly this time? Yeah, so look, I think thus far, I would argue,
 and of course, I'm biased in saying this, that there really hasn't been a lot of successful tokenization
 of RWA other than what we've done in the consumer credit side. And the reason I'm saying that is,
 you know, you look at a middle, for example, and okay, middle has, I don't know, three and a half
 billion dollars of 80 women at right now, which as a money fund is insignificant, right? You don't
 make money in a money market fund until you have about a hundred billion dollars of assets. And so,
 you know, it's just not a material thing. And, you know, like, Paul is a cred, well, there's a
 couple hundred million dollars in acre on blockchain. Well, that doesn't even begin to move a needle
 for a Paul, right, in terms of what that is. And I think what a lot of people don't realize and
 kind of going back to those three value props I talked about earlier, for figure to get loans
 on chain, we had to leave a lot of money on the table along the way. So we had to have a long-term
 perspective. So in the beginning, the hedge funds that came to us to start buying loans said,
 hey, I'll pay you more if I don't have to deal with blockchain. Literally, they would have paid
 me more money per loan if they didn't have to deal with the blockchain. And I'm like, the only
 reason I created a lender was to get you guys on the blockchain. So no. And, you know, one point,
 you know, one of the big insurance companies came to us and said, I will pay you more if you
 underwrite to my underwriting box, not to the market underwriting box. And we said, well,
 that's going to get rid of the homogeneity asset that will impact liquidity. No, we're not going
 to do that, right? We're going to get paid less and we're going to do what we're doing.
 Because we knew at some point we'd hit the inflection point where blockchain was actually
 an asset and not a liability. But the reality is, you know, when you start off right now,
 it's a liability. There isn't this panacea of money on blockchain that you can't get to anywhere
 else. Money is really smart and it can get to whatever it wants to. It doesn't need the blockchain
 to do that. And so in the beginning, you're introducing something different that introduces
 friction. And so, you know, in the beginning, it isn't that it's cheaper for me to finance
 X, Y, Z on blockchain or trade PDQ on blockchain or whatever it might be. It's actually, you know,
 a lot of circumstances is going to be more difficult to do it. But in the long run,
 it will make sense, right? And for us, we hit that inflection point, you know, a year and a half,
 two years ago. And, you know, our third quarter of Gomber's we did 160 million of revenue was
 somewhere in that neighborhood. But we did $90 million of net income. And you know, that net
 income margin was because of blockchain efficiencies that weren't there three years before, right?
 And we only expect those efficiencies to get bigger over time. So, you know, that's that's the
 challenge that you've got. And there aren't a lot of projects that can mean it and commit to leave
 those dollars on the table up front, you know, over the course of two, three, four years to get to
 that inflection point. Okay. I'd love to know the names of those firms that tried to pay you
 more to not use block name. But I'm guessing you will not disclose those names.
 I was very particular not to you in that, that was if either for competitive reasons or to save
 them the embarrassment, but that's all right. So to wrap up, I'm just any, any final thoughts,
 big plans, expectations for 2026 that we haven't talked about yet.
 No, I mean, look, the big one is getting figure equity on chain. And I think we'll have some fast
 followers of other other companies behind us. And, you know, true blockchain data security is no
 DTCC trading on decks. Financer DeFi. I think this is the future. And, you know, we're taking
 everything that would be able to prove on the credit vertical. And now we're extending that
 into the equity vertical. And that'll be one of the big focus points for 26.
 Gotcha. All right. Well, my thanks for joining me on bits and bits the interview.
 We'll have to have you back sometime next year. And thanks to everybody for watching and listening.
 And Mike, thanks again for joining us. Thanks for having me.
