TITLE: Decentralized Stablecoins and MZERO Innovations with Luca (MZERO CEO) [Podcast]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: On_the_Brink_-_M0_v2_01

TRANSCRIPT:
Today I have on Luca as our guest, our guest of honor. He is the founder and CEO of MZERO,
which is a decentralized stablecoin protocol and has a corresponding asset, which is M,
and is working on a bunch of cool things on top of M, like wrapped stablecoins, wrapped white
labeled stablecoins, extensions, and some other really cool stuff that I'm excited to get into
in this conversation. But before we kick it off and get into the meat of everything,
Luca, it would be awesome if you could give a quick intro. Tell us a little bit about your
background, your time at MakerDAO and maybe other experience kind of inspired you to launch and
start MZERO. Yeah, absolutely. And thanks for having me, Rhea. We were laughing before starting
the recording that I'm here stuck in a thunderstorm in Brazil with no power,
doing this from the soul. And so I hope that you can, the listeners can hear the thunders in the
background. I never know. Luca is a committed guest. I never know how good the airpods are
canceling the background noise. But yeah, I mean, I'll give you like a couple of minutes introduction
about myself and the origins of the MZERO project. I'll try not to make it too personal. Today is
actually a special date for me. You will understand why in a second, but I am a mathematician by
background. I'm a mathematical economist. I started my career working as a consultant for
financial institutions at Oliver Wyman and spent the following 15 years advising investing in
financials. I joined Morgan Stanley as a financial institutions banker, post-business school
in London, then became a hedge fund manager, private equity manager, investing in financial
institutions. And most people who haven't spent time with financial institutions wouldn't know that
actually serving financial institutions as an industry is a pretty niche thing.
Even if you work in Wall Street, there is probably a group of 20% of people that are
deep, deep down in financials and understand financial institutions, balance sheet, etc.
And the rest of the world has no clue what these guys are doing. And I was one of those.
I started working in crypto exactly five years ago, so relatively
recent, although I do things a hundred percent. So when I started, I really started. And the
reason of my fascination with crypto was not trading, but was actually this idea that some
of the early-day DeFi protocols we're having of reinventing money from a first principle
perspective. Most people don't know that money is not a payment product. Money is a
leverage product. And the way it is actually created is very theoretical, ephemeral, and
a product of checks and balances that have always existed in the banking system, but currently
exist at the protocol level in crypto. And the project that really started my fascination
was Maker. And I said that today is an important day for me because the reason why I had so much
time to study this is that five years ago, the first week of COVID, I was forced out of my job
because I received the absolutely unexpected diagnosis of cancer. I discovered I was affected
by a rare form of block cancer. And I spent the six months after that trying to save my life
successfully with isolation and chemotherapy. And during those months in a 20-square-meter room,
me and my wife, we had to entertain ourselves. So I started to write a sub-stack that became
quite respected in the space called DirtRoads and participate in some of those projects,
including Maker. When I came out of the other side alive, it was really clear to me that I
wanted to spend my time doing meaningful stuff and building something I believed in
instead of making older men richer than what they actually were already. And so I went full on.
I spent the following couple of years trying to connect. Maker is a protocol with the real
world of lending participating in this initiative called the Real World Asset Initiative,
terrible name. And up to the point where I realized that those protocols were great proofs
of concept, but they were not really skittable in the institutional space. So after trying to
be an activist in this protocol to put more checks and balances, I actually decided to step
down. And together with Greg, my co-founder actually launched MZero. And this was December
2022. I just want to pause for one second and first of all say congratulations on the five-year
mark. And I'm so sorry to hear that you must have had to go through such a grueling physical and
mental challenge also at a time when COVID was happening. And yeah, thank you for sharing that
story. It's really inspiring to hear. Thanks a lot for the kind words. I'm not sorry at all.
I feel it was the greatest privilege of my life to go through this. I think it's the most powerful
propeller you have. It transformed me and turbocharged the impact I had on my own life
and on the world. So I cannot say I hope other people go through the same stuff, obviously,
but what I can say to other people is that I hope they have the strength I had to capitalize on the
pain that is inflicted on us sometimes. Thank you just so much for sharing that.
Okay. So you brought up Maker now and you mentioned a little bit how, and maybe this
wasn't just in reference to Maker DAO, but just generally how maybe such a model wouldn't scale
for institutional offerings. Could you talk a little bit about why that's the case?
Yes, absolutely. And I also want to clarify that when I talk about institutional
offering, I do not mean necessarily the boring regulated hyper stiff banking world. What I mean
is an institutional mindset of large scale instead of a retail gamified phenomenon.
The institutions could actually be new institutions, right? But I think there is a
way of doing things that is professional and institutional like, which was not the way of
early day protocols in crypto. And it's obviously always the case, I think, in new companies,
new industries. But to be a bit more specific, I don't know how familiar the audience is with
Maker or the early day Maker DAO. Maker was the first real decentralized stablecoin protocol.
Maker allowed holders of crypto collateral like ETH to start and others who pledged this collateral
in a repo form and finance a subset of that collateral in the form of DAI
then could have been sold in the open market to expand the long position or just as a financing
tool. On the other side, the holders of this decentralized stablecoin called DAI,
they had the benefit of having a stablecoin that was decentralized in nature.
It was hyper transparent and over collateralized and it's very safe in the backing. I think I found
this was incredible. It is still an incredibly powerful mental framework, the so-called CDP
based model, which underpins also some of the system design of M0. Now, why I think this was
not scalable, I joined Maker thinking that Maker really had the chance to become the central bank
of DeFi, so to say. And the idea we had at the time was like, okay, Maker cannot really scale too
much because the collateral that is backing DAI is so volatile against the dollar that is very
difficult to make this system capital efficient. So you need to pledge a lot of collateral. You need
to have very, very thick safety margins to make sure that the currency that is minted as a subset
of that value is safe. And so why not using other type of collateral? Like for example,
US treasury collateral, which is abundant, is very safe by definition. So you can actually have very,
very thin margins and you can actually mint a token based on that type of collateral.
And we tried that at Maker, we actually, Maker succeeded at some point, Maker $3 to $5 billion
of treasuries that yield for the protocol. Maker at some point was the largest holder of USDC in
the world with $5.5 billion USDC and it was not making any money out of it. The problem is that
the protocol, first of all, structurally was designed, it was not designed for this.
And then the governance of the protocol was heavily gamified. And this is a problem of some
of these early day crypto projects. So you had this idea of decentralized governance, anonymous
governance, which is not really working because the people who actually bought the tokens were
actually buying the tokens as a speculative asset rather than vote. And then you had very few people
deciding the fate of DAOs and just like offloading the liabilities, the rest of the DAOs.
So it was not a very stable environment for connecting with financial systems. So I think
it was a combination of original thin type of design and a governance framework that was
optimized for velocity and gamification rather than for scale and thoroughness. I think this is
not a problem only of Maker. I think it's a problem of several early day projects. Actually,
Maker survived and thrived by changing its mission from that of a decentralized central bank
to that of some sort of crypto-native credit fund, which is what it is today.
But then something about the model inspired you to launch MZero. And maybe specifically,
you describe MZero as a decentralized protocol. And I want to talk a little bit about that and
the importance of that relative to other stablecoin models where there is a single centralized
issuer that manages collateral in a centralized way. I think that is one of the beauties of the
original Maker was that it was decentralized and they did create a mechanism by which the asset
that was minted was able to maintain its stability even though it was decentralized.
Yeah, and I think the best way to do this is by analogy. Because actually, centralized money
frameworks like the ones of Circle and Heather are the weird ones because we do not live in such
a world today. And I think I can describe better my analogy. Currently, we live in this dual banking
system. And I think that you have commercial banks interacting with the customers, and then
those commercial banks are connected through a regulatory system and a central banking
actor that is providing liquidity to the system and is also a lender of last resort of sorts.
Now, the commercial banks are all different. Now, they create money by crediting our deposits.
We think the deposits are all the same. They're not, right? So like if you have money with JP
Morgan and money with a regional bank in some US state, for example, the credit profile of those
banks is very different. So the money is technically not really fungible.
The reason why it's fungible is because there is like this regulatory framework and liquidity
framework around it that guarantees some sort of interoperability during normal times. So we actually
live in a decentralized money system where you have credit collateral distributed across several
institutions. And then you have some sort of like central banking system where you have
collateral distributed across several institutions. And then you have some sort of
central connection point that glues all those different players. And why is this beneficial?
Because obviously there are huge network effects and money is useful when there is utility and
interoperability of this form of money. So you know you can spend your money,
you can send money to different banks within a system, you can do stuff with it.
And this is not the way early day issuers, stable conditioners are working, right? If you are circle,
you issue, you keep the reserves, you keep the money, you have this kind of permissioned
proprietary token, and then you have to create your ecosystem around that token. It's obviously
dystopian to imagine that they would conquer the rest of the whole world with one issuer.
And it's also unrealistic that you can have 20, 30, 40, 50 non-interoperable vertical issuers that
are competing one against the other. Funnily enough, I have a lot of respect for all the
companies innovating in this space, but if you think about the Paxos model where Paxos is developing
independent verticals for their clients, you need a stable coin, I'll build a stable coin for you,
it's cannibalizing its own business, right? If you have a success story,
the next success story is actually eating into the liquidity of the previous
success story, and it makes things more and more difficult. So in the maker system instead,
it was a different story, right? It was closer to the dual banking system we have
today in FIA, where you had different issuers, so different pledgers of collateral,
they were storing the collateral in smart contracts, and those issuers were issuing
the same token. And the token was the same because ultimately the risk profile and the
technological characteristics of those tokens were one. And for us, this was incredibly important.
So when we designed the zero, we designed, first of all, a protocol that is, because the debit is
always in the detail, right? We decided a settlement protocol that is ossified, permissionless,
immutable, and exists on mainnet, a governance module that is trying to control certain
parameters of the protocol without the ability to actually ragpull or change the ownership of
the stablecoin asset M. But any issuer, let's say anyone who is permissioned to issue M
by pledging collateral is actually issuing the same token. So you can actually have
something similar to the current banking system where you have a many to one to many infrastructure.
You have many collateral, many issuers that use the same standards, the same collateral type
standards, and they can issue the same asset. So there is shared liquidity, shared network effects,
shared interoperability around this asset. And then on the other side, there are integrators
that need to integrate with one asset only and not with tens of different assets, which is very
impractical. And for us, for everyone in the maker ecosystem, it was like a crucial characteristic
of the model that we think is absolutely non-negotiable and something that not all
the newcomers in the crypto world really appreciate until they need to develop those liquidity
networks themselves and they realize how expensive and difficult they are.
Totally. Saiya, there's two things that I want to touch upon that you mentioned. One is this concept
of, especially in the last maybe year, year and a half, you've had the introduction of
many more stablecoins to the market. And I think first on one hand, it's very exciting that
stablecoins are being adopted more broadly. There is integration of these assets outside of crypto.
I think that's awesome. And I think it's great that people are trying different models to see
what works. But one thing I think about is that you have these closed loop systems in traditional
finance and fintech. But let's just take the example of like PayPal, Venmo,
Cash App, and that's only in the US. And I think one of the things that we want to see happen is
these closed loop systems to be able to talk to and interoperate with one another. But when
you're launching multiple disparate stablecoins without having any kind of underlying
interoperability layer, in a sense, you are kind of recreating the silos that exist in
fintech and traditional finance. So yeah, have you thought about that?
Yes, absolutely. And as you know well, the crypto ethos is very different.
The crypto ethos is that of open sourcing, of interoperability, of modularity.
And we see that of permissionlessness. We see the benefits of this. And I think this benefit
is not 100% appreciated by legacy financial institutions or even legacy fintech
dominant financial institutions. They are moving in a completely different direction though.
Exactly. We absolutely do not want to do this. And interestingly, I think this is very fresh
in our mind, but it's something that I really wanted to share. When we built M0, M0 is a
many-to-many middleware. So it's like a dual-sided marketplace ultimately. It's like a centralized
balance sheet where on the one hand you have issuers and on the other hand you have users.
We went to the issuers and we started chatting with some legacy institution or fintech
saying, why don't you issue an interoperable asset? It's much better for you to build
equities, et cetera. It was like an ambitious version of what
Paxo's Anchorage are trying to do with the global dollar. And those institutions were not very
receptive. I think there is an obsession of control and there is also a lack of understanding of
certain dynamics, especially of cryptocurrencies and markets. Then we went on the other side
and we went to the users. And we went to the users and we said, okay guys, you're building
protocols. You can actually embed digital money in your stack. Why do you think about
embedding an asset that is pristine, is interoperable, can move around, you can swap
it against the ETH and USDC. You can actually partner with each other, creating interoperability
in between your use cases. And we will aggregate any type of collateral behind the scenes for you
and make it super simple and crypto-native. And they loved it. So suddenly from struggling
to actually have five conversations a month with large institutions, we have been inundated
by requests of integrators to actually extend the DM token themselves into their own stack.
And we have like tens of requests coming every week. And then as soon as you have distribution
power, then the other side of the marketplace gets excited and say, oh, wait a second guys,
you actually have access to like a huge network of use cases. No, we want to mint this asset.
Imagine if today you would give the ability to issuers to actually issue a white label version
of Teller they can sell into the market. Everybody would do it. So it's an interesting lesson that
we have learned over the last few months. One thing that we didn't mention when we were
talking about like why we're seeing so many businesses want to launch their own stable coin
or like white label stable coin is that they are not, you know, if they use a stable coin
like circles USDC or Tether's USDC, they are not currently getting any of the interest
on those assets. So maybe historically the rationale behind launching a native platform
specific stable coin was to be able to capture that yield. And yeah, it's definitely interesting
to hear that even though you are kind of presenting a solution that allows them to capture that yield
and be interoperable with other assets, they are still like, we want control of the infrastructure.
Is that an accurate maybe understanding of what you're saying as it relates to like the larger
institutions and fintechs today at least? Yes, it is accurate, but I think it's also part
of a learning process. I know I cannot mention the institutions, but we have spoken to teams
of very large fintech institutions on a global scale that have developed non-interoperable
proprietary stable coin stacks that are still useful for their own internal uses, right? To
transfer money internationally or to act as a stable lag of their own exchanges, etc. But
at the end of the journey, they realized that nobody would have used those instruments outside
of the limitations of their apt gardens. And they kind of regret that they had gone in that
direction. I think there is a lot of learning here. I think there is some sort of natural tendency
towards control in financial institutions plus a genuine concern for regulatory issues. But I think
the power of crypto capital markets is exactly this open sourcing and interoperability.
So I think it is a process. In the same way you have seen banks at the very beginning
promoting the concept of permissioned chains, then they realized that those permissioned
blockchains were nothing else then, nothing different from internal databases. And ultimately
they have embraced open blockchains because the potential is completely different. And I think
this is also a path that will bring us also traditional fintech institutions. I think it is
a process. But yes, your point is absolutely correct. Talking about yield only is like looking
at a finger pointing at a moon and just obsessing about a finger and not the moon.
The yield is one component of control, but there is much more. I mean, ultimately,
money's infrastructure is not only yield. It's compliance. It's listing with listing. It's
composability. It's much more. But I'm very optimistic that even the most traditional
institutions will realize that. I think that with a genius act coming, we will see like tens of
hundreds of dollar-delimited stablecoins coming and then some sort of natural Darwinian effect
integrating those and making them more open, more interoperable at some level of the stack.
I also want to touch on another thing that you mentioned, which is,
okay, we were talking to these large institutions. They're going through this process, which they
just need to go through to kind of get to the other side. But in that process, you realize that
there are integrators and use cases that are today excited about the value proposition of M0.
Can you talk a little bit about who is using M0 today and how are they using it? Are they using
M the asset natively or are they kind of using this power of wrapping M and extensions as well?
Yeah. So these are the early days of M0. We launched the infrastructure, effectively,
end of Q3, 2024. We don't know what the equilibrium will be. We really think it's
just like a novel money market instrument or some sort of wholesale stablecoin or
metastablecoin, however you want to call it. We think really that most use cases will happen
around this wrapping concept or extensions concept, as we call it, but we are really
receptive to the market. Currently, the end float is very early. Half of it is in wrap M form,
which is like the wrap M is simply a DeFi friendly wrapper. So let's say it's in naked form and the
rest is in extension form. So we have two extensions live. One is Usual. So Usual,
most people know Usual is a DeFi crypto native high yield project. They are basing their reserves
though largely on risk-free assets. Now, a not insignificant portion of those reserves is actually
sitting in Usual M, which is an extension of M that is dedicated to Usual with certain
functionalities of control like wrapping and wrapping, non-interoperability because for
security reasons, they use this as a reserve asset. The other issuer, the other extender
is Noble. Noble, most people know Noble as the issuer of USDC on Cosmos. Noble is an issuer
of assets in the Cosmos ecosystem. We have known the team for a long time and they are awesome.
Ultimately, this business is made by humans and we really like each other as human beings.
They decided to actually launch their own dollar because they said, okay, we're doing the heavy
lifting and doing the distribution for someone else's assets. Why should we do it? Going back
to your point, why should we keep making money for Circle or Tether? They built the Noble dollar,
USDN entirely on M0 infrastructure. They are actually wrapping M with additional
yield distribution functionalities and control and they are issuing it in the ecosystem.
We have received tens, probably 30 to 40 requests of integrators of different kinds
to actually do the same. I think that really we believe M is going to be some sort of wholesale,
behind the scenes, reserve asset, not only asset, reserve infrastructure that actually
aggregates collateral, bets collateral, streams yield, takes care of interlock across chains,
et cetera. Then distributors will bring this asset to the ultimate clients with additional
functionalities. Going back to the analogy I was making before, let's say 10 years ago,
the distribution of money where the bank branches, so you had money there with additional features
and then behind the bank, there was some sort of central bank line. In the future, we will have
branded tokens or fintech applications that are your distribution network and behind the scenes,
there is actually M0 infrastructure that is streaming the money and the yield in between them.
Very interesting. In the examples that you gave with Usual and Noble's
Dollar, are they essentially interoperable with one another? Talk about how the interoperability
between those is enabled via M0. It really depends on what every extension wants to do.
In the case of Noble and Usual, actually the wrapping and unwrapping is permission.
There are very limited parties who can actually wrap and unwrap the end token to go to Usual
Dollar or Noble Dollar, but let's say that you are a user that has the ability to do both.
You could actually atomically take the Usual and unwrap it and going back to the end source and
mint Noble Dollar with M in one block. You could do that. I think that the idea is those extensions
or anyone in case an extension has permissionless wrapping and wrapping can unwrap back to the raw
material and move this raw material around and rewrap freely. A very practical example is
liquidity. Most people who are not in stablecoin land appreciate the importance of liquidity.
Liquidity is everything in stablecoins. There is a pool, Uniswap v3 pool currently of around $20
million, which is an Uniswap v3 pool. You can swap Uniswap v3 for USDC and up to $20 million or
depending on the liquidity there is in the pool, the composition of the pool within one tick,
let's say with no slippage. Both Usual and Noble Uniswap v3 are actually pointing towards the same
pool. If Usual and Noble want to actually access the USDC liquidity for off-ramping
on doing other things, they're actually using the same liquidity value. They don't need to
build two liquidity values. This becomes more and more important because contrary to the
verticalized system where if you have PayPal USD and then you have global USD and they're different,
they are actually fractionalizing their own liquidity here. The more parties you bring
in, more liquidity actually centralizing one value and benefits everyone.
Yeah, you're getting into having network effects.
Exactly. For liquidity, which is very, very important.
Yeah, that is a huge issue. I think people underappreciate how difficult it is to
bootstrap liquidity for a net new stablecoin, even if you are a large institution. I think that's
really interesting. Another thing you mentioned is on and off-ramping. I've been thinking about
on and off-ramping a lot. The more stablecoins you have, the more integrations that need to be
built. I'm assuming in the M system, if you create an on and off-ramp into M, then that benefits all
of the wrapped assets and extensions that built on top of M. Is that right?
Correct. Absolutely.
Yeah. I think on and off-ramping generally is an underappreciated or an underrated challenge,
rather, that people don't talk about enough, but maybe just taking a broader view. What else do
you think are the big challenges to stablecoin adoption? Challenges, but I strongly believe we
are observing the most relevant paradigmatic shift in finance of our lifetimes. I really
think that builders that are building in this space, they should be absolutely excited
of the potential this space has. It's immense. I read somewhere that stablecoins currently
represent slightly less than 1% of M2 money supply, which is ridiculously low and is enough
to have created one company that is more profitable than Goldman Sachs and another company that is
also more profitable. The tailwind is incredible. Now, I think that for every paradigmatic shift,
it's a bit of a balance because I think that you are breaking... First of all, it's a highly
regulated space, partially in good faith, partially because, obviously, incumbents,
they survive through regulation. I don't like when people try to survive through regulation.
We have seen it also in stablecoin land, thrive through your products, not through lobbying,
but obviously, it's a heavily regulated and lobbied environment, so that makes it very
challenging. Also, what is challenging is also to understand who is your regulator
because we live now, the crypto capital markets and stablecoins, by definition,
are a global financial instrument and they move freely around, so who is your regulator?
It's very difficult to limit the free flowing of assets that can actually move around in DeFi.
You can try, but it's absolutely impossible. I think there needs to be some pragmatic approach
of founders to build something that, in principle, makes sense and is very
solid and sound, but there is not a regulatory rulebook, unfortunately. One works for the US,
the other works for Europe, the other works for Singapore, the other works for
Perps or whatever. I think this is difficult because this is something that wasn't existing
before. The internet thrived because it was operating in a non-regulated environment.
Finance is different. Then there is obviously this cultural shift. I worked in an investment
bank myself. Investment banks are very innovative and very frontier-oriented compared to commercial
banks, but still, they're hyper-conservative and they're protecting their own turf.
That makes it difficult. At the same time, though, and this is the realist in me, not the optimist
in me, is the technological and architectural superiority of digital money versus FIA-based
money. It's so obvious it ultimately is inevitable. Some of those new projects that emerge
in a crypto-native way, they just grow so fast. I think that even building for the
native crypto-economy is enough to let this sector explode. Circle always positions itself,
for example, we talk only about Circle and Tether because obviously these are the two dominant
forces, but Circle always position itself as a tech company, regulatory-friendly, payment-oriented,
but the reality is that Circle is where it is because it's dominating DeFi. Crypto-economy is
very big and grows very fast. You might spend years trying to pitch a regulated exchange
to actually embed your stablecoin and a lot of gatekeepers, and then suddenly someone funds
Hyperliquid and Hyperliquid has $2 billion of users' funds floating around in less than two
years. I think that the velocity of the newcomers is shockingly high and we are building for those.
So we are building for those types of guys, for those builders. People, they want to
silence, they want to disrupt, they want to build things, they want to go fast,
and they want to build with other builders. Unfortunately, it's more future-proof than
traditional incumbents' opinion. I was going to ask you about how you think stablecoins
will increasingly be used and diversify their use case over time, and I think
most of the time you hear people talking about their adoption within traditional finance,
traditional payments, but less so about how they will grow as the set of use cases within this
space grows and as more native crypto applications are developed and launched.
I think it's a combination. I think that definitely the latter, I believe, but also
I think in the 2010s we have seen giant fintech apps coming to market as leak frontend based on
antiquated backend. So I remember I lived in London for more than 10 years and I was actually there
when the Revolut team pitched at the Google Accelerator for the Revolut pre-seed
for their FX credit card. I think it was 2014 or something like that. Yeah, it was actually cool.
One of my best friends from business school actually won that competition and I angeled
into his company and Revolut was number two and I did not. So it was painful. But apart from the
jokes, at the time, Revolut for a long time, they were a beautiful product, but behind it there was
Lloyd's TSB, which was definitely not a very innovative traditional bank. So in my opinion,
we're going to see an emergence also of new generational fintechs or neobanks 3.0
that will build directly on stablecoin and crypto rails. So the users will not see the difference.
Yeah, they will have a better experience, but the velocity of new value prop will increase massively
because these guys will build on top of decentralized infrastructure, mainly markets
and stablecoin rails. Even from a deal flow perspective, we are seeing a lot of companies
that are positioning themselves as stablecoin native neobanks, both targeted at individuals
and businesses. So I'm very excited to see how financial services powered by stablecoins evolve
and introduce new types of products and just make finance generally faster and more efficient
and cheaper to access. Yes, absolutely. And it will happen. I think it's inevitable and it's a
very exciting time to be alive. So as we wrap up, I guess looking forward into 2025, what has you
most excited about what's coming up with M0 and the space more broadly?
The fact that stablecoins are now mainstream in the narrative and there is going to be more
regulatory clarity around stablecoins. There is more institutional awareness of stablecoins.
We are reaching a different stage of maturity. Obviously excites me as a builder in the space.
There is so much to do. So M0 is really an inflection point. Our infrastructure is
maturing. We are really finding product market fit. We will have tens of integrations by the
end of the year, hopefully, and 10X or 20X, the type of liquidity that we have in the system today.
And that excites me very much. And as always, it's all about execution and execution keeps
you very busy building companies and running companies is an intense experience for everyone.
So that's something that excites me a lot to grow M0 as a project and make it relentlessly
and obsessively perfectionist. At the same time, the macro is great. So I think that this
combination of macro tailwinds, regulatory clarity, institutional maturity, and at the same time,
seeing a company that really can step up in terms of scale, capital endowment, integrations,
product market fit and TIN, I think is very exciting. And a lot of things will happen in
the next nine months. So it's a great time, I think, in this industry. I personally am not
really worried about market volatility in crypto and tech in general. I think that very good
investors, in my opinion, are not worried either because we're building tech. We're not building
trading conduits, but we will see where we'll get there. I was actually very nervous when I saw the
excessive excitement at the end of 2024, beginning of 2025 around everything that
had connections with crypto. I don't like when the hype becomes too intense.
Moves ahead of the product. Yeah, exactly.
Agreed. Well, I'm very excited to see the value proposition of M0 play out over the year. I think
it's a very elegant and interesting architecture. And I resonate a lot with some of the core ideals
around interoperability, especially. I think that is one of the biggest value propositions of
the rails that we're building. And I want to thank you so much. It's been such a pleasure
to talk to you about everything. So grateful to you for sharing your story with us.
Thank you for coming on. Thanks again, Rhea.
