TITLE: Squads and Altitude: Evolving Crypto Financial Platforms with Stepan Simkin [Castle Island Ventures]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Stepan_Simkin_-_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
Today, I sat down with Stepan Simkin, the founder of Squads.
Squads started in 2021 as a multi-signature wallet product,
effectively a crypto savings account
for Solana-based protocols and companies.
Over time, the company has evolved
into a much fuller financial platform,
serving the treasury and financial operations needs
of a significantly wider set of global customers
using stablecoins.
Today, that broader business finance account platform
is called Altitude, while Squads continues on
as the original crypto native account for protocols.
Stepan and I discussed the company's evolution
into being a financial services provider,
how stablecoins are changing banking
and the impact on global currencies.
I hope you enjoy our conversation.
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners
at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them or the guests
on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets
discussed on this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed
by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment
or follow a particular strategy,
but only as an expression of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by bad mortgage investments,
Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be liquidated.
The federal government loans
American International Group, AIG, $85 billion.
This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in
to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
the two mortgage giants that have been threatened
by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more
into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple of trillion dollars
and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry,
we have something called the Bitcoin, Bitcoin.
Stepin, thanks for sitting down with us today.
I wanna kick off with how do you describe Squads
and how do you describe the company you guys are today?
First of all, thanks so much for having me.
I think the way we describe the company
has evolved over time,
just like we evolved and the industry evolved as well.
The way we think about Squads today
is we're a financial services company.
That is a very short description.
And then a longer one would be
we're a stable coin powered financial services company,
building infrastructure and services layer
for the stable coin economy.
And yeah, I'm excited to dive into
what that actually means on the podcast today with you.
How do you map who you consider to be the other core players
in stable coin stack or who else do you rely on?
Cause you have issuers like a Circle or Tether,
and then you have other custody providers
like maybe an Anchorage who are also in the banking space
or Fireblocks.
So where do you feel like you guys sit
and what do you think are the important businesses
at a high level longer term?
So when I think about the stack,
you have more the regulated and the more Fiat connected part.
So that includes issuers, that includes orchestrators,
that includes card providers and card assurers.
That's one bucket.
Then you have the custody bucket,
which like you mentioned, there's Anchorage,
there is Fireblocks, there's Coinbase custody,
there's all these players.
And then I think where we exist is on one hand,
we're essentially on even a lower level,
even closer to the chain,
because we are building programmable accounts,
programmable wallet infrastructure
that is directly connected to the blockchain.
Obviously I'm biased,
but I think if you also look at the market today,
the orchestration part, for example,
gets commoditized relatively quickly at this point,
while the real sort of knowledge and expertise
is how do you build on top of the stablecoin rails,
on top of the blockchain,
in a way that actually converts to real business outcomes
that is secure, that actually allows you to take most
out of this sort of new financial infrastructure.
And so I think the closer you are to the source,
the more valuable you are in the stack.
But it's also important to mention
that just that layer is completely useless,
at least in the current state.
So we need all the layers.
You also have, we didn't talk about the scheme management
as well, which is like its own layer.
We need all the layers today,
but I think from a long-term perspective,
the way I think about the stablecoin space
is that we should all be, our North Star as an industry,
a subset of crypto, should be end-to-end stablecoin settlement
because the way the market is structured today
is that we're using all these intermediaries,
again, which are amazing companies, amazing businesses.
But when I'm thinking about stablecoin backed cards,
the amount of intermediaries, the fees in the middle,
the complexity that we're enduring,
just to get to the same state,
basically where I can tap the phone at the point of sale
and buy a cup of coffee,
I think I should be scanning a QR code
and doing a single transactional change
from one account to another.
And that should be the settlement,
as opposed to doing all this sort of jujitsu
with the seven different vendors in the middle,
a lot of them being the old vendors
and using legacy tech stack to, again,
achieve sort of the same outcome
we have today on Web2Rails.
Yeah, it makes sense.
And you are obviously coming from the salon ecosystem
where you have an environment
that is built around seamless money movement.
So it makes sense.
To that point, I wanted to ask you,
because I know you guys started,
I'd say predominantly, and correct me if I'm wrong,
but as a multi-sig product facing
costing assets for protocols in that ecosystem,
was the move to being
a stablecoin-centric financial services provider
proactive from you guys,
or was it something that the market
and customers pushed you to do?
What we started with,
the way we think about it now in hindsight,
is we first had to build this capital aggregation layer,
which is the protocol.
And the way it happened is we had all this demand
from crypto-native companies and protocols
that wanted a secure account on-chain
where they can store their assets
and then manage them with different workflows.
What were they doing before?
It was a mix of CLI wallets,
single, essentially like a ledger,
like a cold wallet that they would manage the authority with.
And so there was a lot of duct tape, basically,
and they didn't really work.
When we actually entered the market,
there was plenty of competition.
There were different multisigs that were being developed.
And the way we always thought about
this chapter of our company history
is that this is the first stage.
This is a very crypto-native focus,
and it allows us to create the secure foundation
that today we think about.
To a crypto company,
what we have on the protocol layer is a multisig,
it's a smart account.
To a non-crypto-native customer
that we're interfacing through Altitude,
which is our business account product,
Squad Protocol is more of a bank and PSP.
It's a protocol that allows you
to create an account to store value.
There are different permissions that you can
create around how that value's gonna be managed,
and then there's different workflows you can apply.
And so it really depends on
who you're interfacing as a customer,
but the stack is that versatile, right?
That it does very simple things.
You create an account where you can store
and share assets and move them around.
Yep, understood.
That makes sense.
And who are you serving
when it comes to non-crypto customers?
Or how do you interact with them differently?
What makes them come to you guys?
So I think one interesting distinction is that
as we launched Altitude, which is our business account,
which one way to think about it would be
that if Multisig is very crypto native,
Altitude is very much looking at
serving traditional businesses and traditional operators,
because even in a crypto startup,
one of the reasons Altitude really came about
and we decided to make this push
and build out this product
is because we would have a customer on the Multisig side.
We originally onboarded them by interfacing with the CTO
and with the development team and maybe with the CEO.
And then at some point, as these projects matured,
they started having COOs and CFOs
and they started having foundations.
And thinking about accounting.
So you grew with them in a way.
Exactly.
And then at that point,
you have a CFO who never touched the ledger,
who never signed the transaction on the blockchain.
And now they're tasked with managing corporate finances,
essentially, regardless of that project
being attached to crypto.
And so even within a crypto startup,
there is very traditional and Web2 side
to a lot of these businesses
where they need to do all the regular things.
They need corporate cards for expenses
when the employees travel,
they need to reconcile the ledger
and essentially file taxes
and they need to make payouts in stablecoin or fiat.
And so that is where we are very much today.
We're onboarding crypto businesses,
but from a very different side.
And then the alternative is a permission of product,
like anybody can apply and get verified.
So we are seeing inflow of businesses
that we didn't expect to realize.
Like there's corporate services providers, law firms,
and a lot of them are based in offshore jurisdictions.
A lot of them already service crypto businesses.
And so the way to think about our ICP today
is if you're already one way or the other
exposed to stablecoins
and you're looking for a better solution
to manage your financial operations as a business
and those operations include stablecoins,
this is where you come to us today.
But I think as we expand the idea is that
obviously we want to democratize access
to really high quality premium grade fintech
in places where there's just no fintech ecosystem at all,
either because there's just no tech broadly in that geo
or because it's just non-viable from economics perspective
to go and onboard customers with low median flow
and low card volume spans.
But I think because we're doing it
on these different rails,
the economics become very different, right?
Because for us to go to a new jurisdiction
and serve a business customer there,
we don't need to now obtain all these licenses
and invest that much capital and time to actually expand
because we're doing it in a self-custodial way
relying on this sort of new financial infrastructure.
So the way you guys map it is you have squads,
the traditional product, which call it
is a crypto custody product facing,
Russians say custody,
but crypto wallet product facing crypto companies.
And then you have Altitude,
which is a stable coin dollar savings product for companies,
which might be in crypto, others that may not.
That's correct.
There's a couple of caveats.
The way you think about Multistake is like,
it's a treasury product, it's a institutional product
because it is not custody, it's self-custody.
So we're not actually taking custody of the funds,
but the ethos of the way we build products,
the way we build infrastructure is that
we're making self-custody feel like custody.
You should be able to still recover your account.
There's different ways for you to do QFA
and essentially for your enterprise
to interact with the Sunchain primitive.
And so that's on the Multistake side.
On the Altitude side, you're exactly right,
but we strongly believe that stable coins
are not just about dollars.
We need all major currencies to be tokenized
if we're really expects the sort of FinTech
to move on these new financial rails.
And so today we have used D&E Euro,
and as we're progressing,
we're gonna be expanding to major currencies,
I guess, starting with pounds and hopefully Singapore dollars
if we can find the right provider.
And then there's BRL and Maxsan,
which are also in high demand at this point.
Yeah, and you mentioned a couple of points
I wanna touch on.
One is on the Altitude side,
do you expect your customers to save money
in the currency of the country they're in?
Do you expect the Mexican customers
to store in Mexican pesos
and British customers being great British pounds,
or do you expect that US dollar stable coins
will be an asset that people save in outside?
I think from a business perspective,
they're gonna be always important.
I think that like for the Altitude customer,
they're gonna keep in dollars, right?
And they're gonna probably opt in
to earn US treasury yield
and then earn yield on dollars through DeFi.
And we're about to announce a couple other
yield integrations as we progress.
But I would say a business has obligations
usually in different currencies.
You have contractors around the world,
you have employees,
you have different vendors you need to pay.
And I would say from that perspective,
the reason we believe in non-USD stable coins
is because maybe even if your treasury
is gonna be in dollars,
you still need to do some payouts
at the end of the month in pounds.
And so the idea is that
because we're doing this on purely programmable rails,
you can have just in time effects on chain
for when sort of it's the best price
and then go deeper into exploring
what the genetic violence could mean.
An agent managing your Altitude account
will be able to do that effect scheduling
essentially for you
and then settle your obligation
when that needs to happen.
And so from that perspective,
we think you do need to solve that last mile use case
because right now you have all these different orchestrators
in different countries
where they give you just in time effects
for when they're actually doing the payout.
I think if you're a consumer,
that's probably okay for you
because then you're just withdrawing
from your dollar savings account,
you're withdrawing from your local bank account
because now you need to pay some bills
or you need some obligations locally.
For a business, I think that's a very different story.
You don't want to find out what effects is gonna be
at the moment when they're actually doing the payout.
You want to hedge that in advance,
particularly if you know that
you're gonna have these obligations,
you're gonna have to meet in that currency anyway.
You wanna hedge that in advance and then pay one to one.
And that also allows you to make sure
that you understand exactly what your costs
for the payout is
as opposed to getting this variability
just in time when they actually need to do the payout.
Do most businesses that you work with
have a pre-existing bank account
or are they establishing their financial footprint
for the first time with you with Altitude?
I think right now,
definitely they all have some form of a bank account.
For example, obviously, U.S. is really well-served
in terms of FinTech, particularly for businesses.
The existing solutions
already give you great stable coin focus workflows.
So that's why we're seeing a bunch of customers come in.
And then also any good head of ops should diversify.
Definitely.
You should have multiple bank accounts.
You should have multiple options to the payout, right?
And so that is our kind of wedge in
both on the stable coin side.
If you are dealing with stable coins,
we're gonna give you a better solution
than existing solutions in the market,
or you just need to diversify for a great option.
Definitely in the future,
we would love to essentially enable net new customers
that didn't really have access to banking
or had access to very old legacy rail banking
using UIs from 1990,
now actually getting access for the first time
to a great FinTech experience
that is with Altitude as a product.
And to your point,
what businesses do you think benefit
from the entry of something like Altitude the most?
Right now, it's probably two buckets.
If you're touching stable coins
and you want to do atomic workflows,
like for example, you have,
you're looking to move your workforce
onto stable coin rails.
You want to pay your contractors and employees
through stable coins.
Why is that most of the time when you see it?
Is it because they have global employees,
what's the push there most of the time?
Correct, they have global employees.
Or for example,
they're already doing it in stable coins,
but it's all over the place.
Like somebody wants to get paid out through Tron,
everybody has a different wallet,
and it's really messy.
But because you have a global workforce,
they already prefer to get paid in stable coins.
And so that's like one example
where if you want to streamline that experience,
we're going to give you the best way to do this.
I'm already touching stable coins buckets.
Or again, there's a lot of businesses
that some customers paying them
or some vendors paying them in stable coins
and they need a reliable way to receive that payment.
Maybe they want to keep a portion of that to earn yield
and they want access to better yield opportunities.
And then they want to do the payout at some point
into the bank account.
So that's one bucket.
I'm already in doing something with stable coins
as a business and I'm looking for the right solution.
I think the second bucket,
which is we are looking to expand that
as we sort of progress,
but I don't really have a proper bank account experience
for whether I'm a merchant on Shopify.
There aren't that many options for me
other than using the actual storefront platforms
like Shopify themselves,
which are giving you some financial features.
But then again, there's a lot of geographical innovations
and we are seeing a bunch of inflow of customers
from that side.
I think the second bucket,
we definitely would love to see grow,
but I understand the first need to solve the very core
and we actually need to,
there's a lot of features we're shipping right now,
which we consider just to be table stakes,
whether it's the CFO stack, accounting, bill pay, invoicing.
These are not things we're innovating,
but we're putting them on stable coin rails
and giving you exactly the same experience you expect,
but without touching the legacy tech stack.
And then there's a lot of room for innovation,
whether it's giving access to internet capital markets
or different yield sources
and different automations and programmability
that you can essentially enable
when you have an operations person running that account.
And so we are really happy
that we have this group of 500 to 1,000 customers
that already love squads, love the products,
really trust us, trust our infrastructure
that are willing to give us the benefit of the doubt
as we're essentially building out business banking solutions
without the bank.
We're super grateful for
and we definitely don't want to accelerate too far
and too much right now,
because we think that the motions we're seeing right now
are valuable to actually get to the right end state
of what this product should look like.
It's interesting you mentioned
the behavior of a lot of your customers
as using something like squads for yield opportunities
or they'll store money in U.S. dollar stable coins
because they can earn U.S. treasury rate on it
or presumably even invest in some kind of other product
from that experience,
because I think you hear about people
where they're in a country with high inflation
and they move into U.S. dollars
because it's just a better store of value
and a little bit less about that treasury behavior
and their different behaviors.
So I did want to ask you,
there's currency flight in the traditional,
like, oh, move to stable coins
because it's a better alternative
than the domestic currency,
but do you think we'll get almost an equal measure
people who move on to stable coins
or U.S. dollar stable coins as a rail
because they just think of better financial opportunities
and that becomes almost an alternative form
of currency flight that's happening?
Yeah, certainly we do that.
And I think if you listen to interviews
with John and Patrick Olson back from like 2021,
where they would talk about how they obsess
over how much literal friction there is in the world
and how removing that in software,
like solving the very little things
and thinking ahead about what the user journey might be
and like where they want to click,
giving that information earlier,
this is the level of obsession we got in Web2 and in SaaS.
And now we're getting to do that
in essentially financial infrastructure.
And so even if you think about access to yield,
like even if I'm as a business
can access the same yield opportunities
and I have enough access in Web2 rails
and I'm getting access to the same opportunities
through stable coins and essentially blockchain infrastructure,
even when we talk to customers,
the idea of just daily liquidity,
the fact that you can withdraw in seconds
and you can deposit in seconds,
there's no T plus one, there's no T plus three,
even that's a huge appeal for DeFi.
That also, by the way,
when you think about the businesses assessing risk
and thinking about, okay,
am I going to go into the DeFi protocol
where I get six or 7% yield,
but where I can withdraw any time
or I'm going to go into some structured product
that the bank is offering me
where I'm locked in for 30 days,
I don't actually control this relationship.
A lot of the businesses are choosing to go into DeFi
just because that idea of pure efficiency,
that it's one click away and it's pure software,
there's no like human in the middle managing this for me.
Even from that perspective,
it's a good example of where I think,
also I heard that before with people saying
stable coins are going to be irrelevant in the US.
They're only going to be relevant in places
where you have people trying to move to dollars
because they don't trust local currencies.
It depends how you sort of view stable coins.
I really think that stable coins and blockchains
is just the new financial rail.
It's just superior infrastructure.
And I think over time,
everything's just going to migrate over to these new rails.
I don't think it's going to be on a single blockchain.
I think it's going to be on a network of blockchains,
but it is an inevitable future.
It will just take a while.
It will take maybe five to 10 years to fully get there,
but it's just a natural evolution of where we're going.
And so I think even in the US,
you're going to see a financial services company like ours
just build better products and better experiences
where customers will be like,
well, they're giving me exactly the same thing,
but it's better, cheaper, faster doing it
with stable coins on chain.
Why don't I just go there?
Well, you see the demand for instant
with Venmo or Robinhood
because the revenue that PayPal and Robinhood do
from the instant payouts
where they charge one to 3% is incredibly meaningful.
I think it's a natural human behavior.
I know there's a couple of wallets in the slot ecosystem
that one of their like main revenue drivers
is instant unstaking of solve.
And it's the idea that you don't want to wait 48 hours
or whatever the 24 hours.
I want this now.
Same goes for even Phantom swaps.
I can go to a sec, two more clicks,
and I'm in Jupiter directly.
I don't pay the 0.85% fee,
but it's just the pure efficiency and the speed.
Like I just want this right now.
It's relevant for consumers, it's relevant for businesses.
And I think, again, just the more programmability
and the more pure software you have
and when it comes to managing money,
the more you can deliver those experiences.
And so I think it touches businesses,
it touches consumers in a similar way.
Thinking about this need to have
relatively quick transactions,
the fact that you guys have customers
who store money in US dollars and other currencies,
are you by nature a believer
in non-US dollar stable coins being at scale?
Because seemingly in that lens,
it might make sense that you need to have
Mexican pesos on a blockchain,
you need to have euros on a blockchain at scale,
but it hasn't happened yet, which I think is interesting.
I think it's gonna take a while.
I definitely believe in non-US stable coins.
I think we're gonna see
at least all the major currencies tokenized
because stable coins, it's a movement not about dollars,
it's a movement about just better, more efficient technology.
And then if that's your thesis,
then why would it stop at dollars?
If I'm trying to build
a better financial services company in Mexico
and I want to deliver better experiences for my customers
and blockchains and stable coins allow me to do that,
I'm just gonna move to those rails.
The companies that are best positioned
to do these tokenized currencies are the orchestrators
because we've seen examples of this, right?
Like where you have different tokenized currencies on chain
without the orchestration component.
And I think that is useless.
You need that to be, you need a virtual account
so somebody can pay in.
I can receive the value of stable coins
in that native currency and then be able to do the payout.
You need both.
And then over time, that one is much harder to solve.
You do need also people to spend on the card
because right now the stable coin back cards we have,
there's FX rates all over.
If they're issued out of Hong Kong,
if you're spending them,
if you're using to spend anywhere outside of Hong Kong,
you're paying the FX fees.
Same goes for if you're doing it in the US and so on.
So that is definitely gonna happen
if it's gonna take a bit more time.
The way, at least we're thinking about it right now
on Altitude, we're gonna be supporting
multiple payout routes for using local rail.
It's gonna be sort of VRL, MXN over time,
where do you do SEPA ECH for dollars and euros.
And I think where we'll see most demand,
this is where we'll lobby for essentially having
this currency tokenized.
Because for our customers,
it is the way we think about the business use case,
you do need to do FX hedging, FX forwarding.
And then I think in some cases,
there's interesting yield opportunity.
When you think about different government bonds
from emerging markets,
where it's higher risk, but higher reward,
we're gonna see that as well.
The next major tokenized currency
will be one of the sort of letdown ones, I'm pretty sure.
I know Bitso is doing some work there.
I know there's a couple of companies
trying to do a general purpose VRL
or MXN stable coin.
I think we're gonna see that first
before we see anything else.
And why do you think that US dollar stable coins
have had the incumbency that they've had?
Do you think it's a result of lendiness
where it started working early on
and it just continued to because of momentum?
Or why do you think that paradigm has taken shape
versus an alternative, more diversified set
of on-chain payment products?
Look, I think we, at least today,
we still live in a dollar denominated world.
When you're thinking about the value of your assets,
you think about the value of assets you don't own yet,
you're really thinking in dollar terms.
The way stable coins came about,
and I know you guys talked about this at length
on the podcast as well,
is like it started from some sort of changes.
And again, this was about how do you trade
against another asset?
And so I think it's natural
that we started with stable coins.
Also, majority of the innovation around stable coins
and fintech generally is coming from DS.
So it's natural that dollars are there first.
But as you know, the technology can use to propagate
because of different jurisdictions.
We'll definitely see more of these come about.
I live in the UAE.
I also think in dollar terms.
I don't think in,
their common is not how I evaluate
my financial life and wealth.
And I don't think in our lifetime
that's probably gonna change that much.
But at least from a technology perspective,
from a usability perspective,
we're gonna see more of these currencies.
And I do imagine dollars will stay very much dominant,
but we do need the other currencies to exist as well.
Yeah, it's one thing to have the mental model,
but when people have access to dollars globally
and that continues to expand
and access to US treasuries,
financial products in other countries,
do you think that destabilizes other currencies
or even other financial products, other treasuries?
To an extent, for sure.
From like a saving perspective,
because at the end of the day,
you're still gonna have local obligations
that you're gonna have to meet in local currency,
whether you're paying rent, you're paying utilities,
most likely you're still gonna go into your local currency.
But from a saving perspective.
You don't think those can be disintermediated?
They can.
I think they technically can.
Also keep in mind,
like in a lot of these places
where the local currency is really weak,
there is also great risk of government control
and currency controls
that can really prevent that happening.
And so I think that is much more of a regular question
than it is a technology question.
And again, if some of these countries actually adopt dollars
as like, look, we're just gonna live on dollars now,
I think this is where you're really gonna see
the shift happening.
Some of these economies already live on UDT
and they're really happy with it.
We'll see how that evolves.
But I think we're, it's a bit too early to tell,
but I am kind of excited to see where this goes.
And I do think dollar dominance
is not really going away anytime soon.
Do you think that other banks,
but even let's say other neo banks,
will move into offering comparable services
to what you guys do?
Absolutely, they already are doing that.
I think the interesting component of this
is they have to honor the legacy tech stack.
They have to maintain it
and they have to figure out a way
how to connect it to systems.
And that on one hand gives them a bunch of opportunities.
They already have a lot of the licensing
and the regulatory status.
On the other hand, that makes them much slower.
And this is where we have a real opportunity,
but opportunity is not there forever.
Do have to accelerate.
And the ones that are the most successful,
it's gonna be the ones that realize today
that we're gonna have to rebuild
majority of our stack from scratch.
And we're gonna have to figure out
how to exist in the stablecoin world,
as opposed to saying,
oh, it's a short-term trend
that let's adopt in some shape or form
to stay in a board meeting that we did.
And so I think whoever treats stablecoin seriously today
and invests in the build out,
Stripe is doing a great job at that.
Whoever recognizes that this is the future
of technological rails,
or at least being that there's a really high chance
of that happening and invests heavily
in making sure that they don't miss that trend.
I think that will be really successful
and they will be the most interesting
and serious competitors to what we're trying to do here.
But we're coming from a completely different entry point
where our problems are much less about
how do we solve self-custody security recovery?
How do we build the FinTech experiences
of stablecoin rails?
Our questions are,
what is the minimum viable regulatory stack
that we need to build?
Which license do we need to get?
It's just very interesting to see this evolve
and I think there will be a natural equilibrium
that we're gonna see.
But some of these major FinTech companies
will be just displaced by stablecoin-first businesses
because of sheer speed and efficiency
that you can gain by building those stablecoin rails.
Well, it feels like there's an innovator's dilemma as well.
These banks are just not going to be compelled
to move into areas that are first off,
in some ways, just not quite as safe
from a regulatory perspective,
looking forever forward at the same time,
not necessarily serving their core audience.
It feels like they have to go out on a limb
to make this their core business or core offering.
From a regulatory perspective, that's a big aspect,
but even if you think about it,
majority of the traditional financial system,
the way they make money is on the inefficiency,
is on the slowness.
If I'm paying you in 30 days,
why am I paying you in 30 days?
Why am I stopping this in 30 days?
Because I'm earning yield on the float
while the delay is happening.
That is my business model.
And so the moment you're saying like,
well, it's just going to be self-custody,
instant settlement, sub-central transactions.
You're like, well, you're killing my business model.
And that is like the chart
of when you let technology into a market,
the prices collapse, there's education that's going up
and like all those things
where the government is involved, for example,
and then you have TVs that are becoming much cheaper,
you know, year by year.
I think the same thing here,
you kind of let technology really go much deeper
into the market.
You just collapse all of these business models
and for a lot of these businesses,
they can't really imagine,
they don't want to believe that this technology
is that transformative because again,
it kills their business.
And it's really hard to say,
oh, I'm just going to rebuild everything from scratch
and reinvest in this when you're feeling good and cozy
in the apparent situation.
Yeah, it's funny.
On the East coast in the US,
we have two trains run by a company called Amtrak.
One is called the Excella
and one is called the Northeast Regional.
And they're very similar.
The Excella train is slightly nicer,
but more importantly, it's always on time.
And the Northeast is delayed all the time.
And so this is the analogy I use sometimes
is that they can charge more for the Excella
because if you have to be on time,
you have to take the Excella.
So it's like-
It's a good analogy.
Right, exactly.
It's why would they give away when they can charge
for premium instant payment experience
in comparison to a slow one?
Do you think local banks can survive in this paradigm
or do you think digital banks
and even say incumbent banks take away market share?
I don't live in the US.
And so for me when,
because I'd travel through Europe.
I spent a couple of months, a year in Europe.
I live in UAE.
I don't really think the concept of local banks
is at least very familiar to me.
Getting in the US,
you have a lot of these smaller banks
that have existed for a while.
And building a bank is an actual business you can go into.
I don't think in the EU at this point,
all the credit regulations,
like starting a bank is even a possible opportunity
for anybody even if they have enough resources.
In UAE, obviously a lot of major, larger banks
that can run everything.
And I do think the barbell
is you're either gonna have these giant banks
or really cutting edge innovative, you know, fintechs.
If it's a bank that is embracing innovation,
then we're seeing more of that happen in the US now.
You have new bank charters being issued
to very tech forward banks
that are trying to adopt stablecoins from the start,
that are trying to be both the bank and the fintech.
I think those banks will do really well.
Without Cross River or Lead Bank,
we wouldn't have a lot of innovation we have today.
And so I think it just depends on what kind of,
because I'm sure Lead Bank is not the level of JP Morgan,
but the way they're building their business is fantastic
because they are adopting all these new technologies
and working with all these new providers
to essentially allow banks to participate in the innovation.
And I think those banks will do really well.
Yeah, it's funny, what I've seen behaviorally
from the regional banks in the US at least
is they'll be really entrenched
in a very specific business for a long time.
So it'll be something like we serve manufacturers
in Cleveland, Ohio, and they'll do that for 75 years
until they realize that they literally cannot survive anymore
if they don't adapt.
And it'll be like, okay, now we serve cannabis companies.
They go all the way out on the risk curve,
and then they'll do that for however long they can
and then recycle.
And in 75 years, they serve only whatever
the regulatory dangerous situation
or the emerging market is in that case.
But to your point, we've seen these companies
serve crypto as a result.
Absolutely, but that's why you have to try to think
ahead long-term and don't try to react in the moment
because things are not working.
Like I think it's thinking about where this is all going.
And I think banks and finance is becoming much less local
because it's moving on, it's now on the internet.
It's not online.
And that is kind of naturally becoming more global.
And so I think from that perspective,
it used to make a lot more sense of like,
it's a bank that would know me.
I live the same place as it exists.
That made sense, I think, some time ago
or past those days and so you're gonna have to figure out
like how you're gonna specialize.
The location itself, I guess, is not enough anymore.
Who is your guys future customer set in your mind ideally?
If you're running your business online,
in the long run, we want you to be our customer.
Whether you're building a startup
and you're selling software
or you're selling goods and you're a merchant,
from a startup and SMB perspective,
if you're doing stuff on the internet,
we want you to be our customer.
But again, we're talking specifically
for two businesses now.
From an enterprise side, there's a lot of demand we're seeing
and spending a lot of time with larger enterprises
who are thinking about treasure management with stable coins.
Interesting opportunity that we're still exploring,
but there's definitely a lot of room to improve there.
Because if you're like a multinational corporation,
you've got 40 entities around the world.
If you're like an Apple scale, you'd have an in-house bank,
so a dedicated company that has all the bank relationships,
all the bank accounts that is doing essentially,
its only purpose is to do treasure management.
The fact scheduling and all the things we talked about here,
I think moving that on the stable coin rails
is like a very, from a sales perspective,
it's actually a very easy motion once you do the work,
because you can say, look, here's how much you're paying
in Swifties now, like here's how many bank accounts
you have to maintain,
and here's how much it's gonna cost
if you move all of that onto stable coins.
I think that is like a powerful exercise
and we're already seeing Stripe themselves are doing that.
I think they were talking about it.
To an extent, the SpaceX was doing that
with Bridger in the early days, a few years ago,
and I think they're still doing it.
We're starting to see elements of that,
but there's a great opportunity for something like us as well
to come in and volunteer style, say,
okay, what is your current banking setup?
Let us map all of it onto stable coin rails.
And even starting with inter-company obligations,
you have a subsidiary in Ireland that owns the IP,
and you're gonna have to pay that every month
or every quarter you pay royalties.
Do that in a stable coin,
settle those obligations internally,
24-7, instantly and for free,
instead of moving money through the banks
when you just need to settle internal obligations.
Yeah, oh, it completely resonates.
I think that visual you paint of showing people
just how much they like for like costs is insightful.
Well, Steppen, it's been a pleasure
hearing some of your insights,
especially from the experience that you have day to day
looking at the emerging banking space, I would call it.
But I wanted to ask you, if people wanna get in touch,
if people wanna use Altitude, learn more,
what's the best way for them to do that?
Who can get in touch with you guys?
Who can explore being a client?
Anybody who listens to this conversation
and either has any ideas, feedback,
or wants to be a customer, you should DM me on X.
My DMs are always open.
It's ads, you can step on.
Let's talk, I'm excited to hear more.
That's true founder-led outreach,
just get in touch with you and learn about Altitude.
Exactly.
Well, thank you again.
I hope to have you back on at some point
and congrats on everything so far.
Thank you so much, thanks for coming.
Thanks for listening to another episode
of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To learn more about Castle Island,
visit castleisland.vc.
And to listen to all of our podcast episodes,
please visit castleisland.vc slash podcast,
or just click on the tab on our website.
Thanks for listening.
