TITLE: Market Intelligence for Digital Assets and Financial Crisis Insights (Josh Frank) [Castle Island Ventures]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Josh_Frank_The_Tie_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
Today in the show, I sat down with Josh Frank, the founder and CEO of The Tie, a company
building a market intelligence platform for digital assets.
This was a fun conversation that touched on the history of The Tie, a deep dive on some
current events, as well as some prognostications for what's ahead for the industry.
I think you'll enjoy this one.
So without further ado, here's my conversation with Josh Frank from The Tie.
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets discussed in this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression
of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by bad mortgage investments, Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be
liquidated.
The federal government loans American International Group, AIG, $85 billion.
This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
two mortgage giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin.
Bitcoin.
Well, Josh, thanks so much for coming on the podcast.
Thanks for having me on.
We'd love to just start with a little bit of your background and maybe an overview of
The Tie.
I mean, my background is not the most exciting thing in the world, but graduated college
in 2017, started working in post-trade settlement technology, which is riveting.
Basically spent my first few months resetting people's passwords, learning Swift actually.
So I did know Swift, which is also riveting.
But as you can tell, it wasn't the most excited about that.
And this was like 2017.
This is when you had a bunch of influencers on Twitter talking about whatever nonsense
coins.
For example, of John McAfee, where he would just tweet out some random token and it would
go up by like 300% in five minutes.
You had all these nonsensical ICOs launching.
I mean, I'm sure you remember some of these, but Siren Labs that raised $80 million to
launch your phone never did.
You had DentaCoin hit a billion in market cap.
So you had all of this utter and complete nonsense and lack of fundamentals.
I was sitting at my job board and was like, okay, somebody needs to build a platform to
make sense of this nonsense.
And so I started as a sentiment data company.
Actually originally as a free to use retail platform was just me when I started.
Actually hired another 22 year old in Pakistan because that's all I could afford.
My co-founder joined me and didn't take any salary nine months later.
Didn't raise any capital, kind of got off the ground trying to build a free to use retail
platform and really kicked our tires for a long time.
Didn't have any clue what we were doing.
We're not able to raise capital.
We tried.
I actually think I brought up to Nick in like 2018, but really couldn't find anything for
a few years.
And then starting late 2019, 2020, we saw institutions were coming in and we saw that
there was a demand for really more holistic view on information and crypto.
And so we launched kind of our first institutional product, started to gain traction, really
gained a lot of traction, started to bring on institutions, created a couple of different
products.
And then in 2021, we got approached by one of the top five Silicon Valley or even higher
VCs who came out and offered us a term sheet.
We weren't even thinking about raising.
And then kind of got the ball rolling of like, okay, maybe there's something here that's
really scalable.
Went out and did kind of a strategic raise and then have kind of been off to the races
since then.
We're now about 80 or so people, profitable business, doing a lot of different things.
But our core is really operating an all in one platform for institutions to stay on top
of the crypto market.
And so the idea today is that if you walk into the office of a hedge fund and you ask
them how they're staying on top of crypto, and I'm sure you guys suffer from this as
well.
You look at their screen, they have 72 different browser tabs open across four different screens.
Our goal has always been to consolidate all the information that an institution wants
to see into a single screen.
So market data, derivatives data, sentiment data, blockchain data, news, private company
research, fundraising data, you name it, all on a single consolidated interface.
And today we service hundreds of the largest institutions operating in the space.
The sentiment data has always been fascinating to me.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about the contrast between how traditional finance uses
that type of data and then who's really doing it well in the crypto space.
Do you see buy side allocators harnessing that sentiment data?
It should be used the same.
It shouldn't matter if you're a crypto fund or you're a traditional fund.
You should be using sentiment data the same.
I think point and click trading based off of sentiment data is not necessarily the best
idea. I think there's two ways to look at it, right?
It's the short term making a trade right now versus the long term looking at sentiment
and community as a fundamental right.
And I think in crypto, from a long term perspective, it can be viewed differently than equity
markets where sentiment and community can be fundamental.
But as it relates to short term trading, the folks that are making money trading our
sentiment data are the same exact folks making money trading sentiment data in equity
markets. Think of it as being like the largest traditional quantitative hedge funds, the
Chicago prop trading firms, things like that.
They're not even running at this point trading strategies purely based off our sentiment
data. They're running existing trend following models that are maybe augmented with
sentiment data. Sentiment data is a factor in that model.
If you see, for example, that there's a really big spike in sentiment on an asset over a
five minute period, that doesn't necessarily mean that every time sentiment goes up, you
should buy. It's not that simple of a relationship, obviously.
When I think about short term, I think about sentiment as being really useful for systematic
trading. And then as it relates to long term, I think sentiment is obviously incredibly
important. And we've seen that play out with a lot of assets.
And, you know, for example, Chainlink early on, before they had a lot of fundamentals,
they had these link Marines that were all over 4chan and that really blew up Chainlink.
Right. And then you had the XRP community, which is massively large, which obviously
there's a ton of fundamentals behind Ripple at this point, and they're buying a lot of
assets. But that community has been what kept XRP and Ripple afloat for so long.
Right. And so I think from a long term perspective, I think it's very important to
not understand. To me, sentiment doesn't matter so much.
It's more how many people are talking about an asset, how that's growing over time, how
many unique people and are those real human beings or are they bots?
Because a lot of people are going to try to bot activity.
That's what I was going to ask next is, I mean, there's so many cases over the history
of crypto where you're like, this is just clearly a bot.
You remember BitConnect and some of these more scam fraudulent tokens during that ICO
run up. That's going to be part of the secret sauce.
Still one of the best videos in crypto history, though, the BitConnect.
All time. All time video.
But I guess just parsing through, like, who's real?
I guess even in the XRP case, there was a time where it was like, this can't be real.
But it does seem to really be an organic following.
I think it's also important to understand that not everything happens on Twitter.
I think oftentimes we kind of misconstrue the fact being in the U.S.
that all of activity happens on Twitter.
A lot of the support for some assets like XRP and Cardano has come out of Japan and
Japanese investors have much more of a holder mentality than like Korea and other
markets in that region. And so when they're buying assets, they're not necessarily
trying to flip them right away. Right.
And so I think it's important to understand that community extends beyond social or at
least extends beyond what's happening on Twitter as well.
There was a bot activity. Honestly, it's kind of very easy to weed out.
I mean, you can look at follower to followers ratios.
You can look at how long an account has been around for.
You can look at its history. But the easiest way, and I'm sure you do this, if you go
look at account, it has four hundred thousand followers, the token and no one you know
follows them. That's not real.
Probably a bot. We actually have this feature on our platform that we call the ApeFluencer.
And what the ApeFluencer basically does, we track like the top few hundred VCs and hedge
funds on Twitter. We basically try to look at what they're following in real time to
basically identify what are the hottest projects, you know, what are the top products
right now, what's new, what's trending as ways to like from a venture perspective, like,
OK, I want to find a project earlier, so let me see like what's trending earlier.
And then from more of a trading perspective, OK, obviously over the last few months,
Hyperliquid was followed by everyone and it blew up.
So things like that as well.
We do that a lot, too, is just looking at who our peers are starting to follow.
Definitely seems like at least from a venture perspective, that's a good way to just stay
on top of who's leaving a company, who's going into stealth mode.
Yeah, we actually track who is the first follow of projects.
So like, who was the first person to discover Hyperliquid?
Who was the first person to discover whatever else?
And what's funny is you can start to find like patterns.
And look, obviously, some of these accounts follow 10,000 people.
There's a great assault there because they're kind of just following everyone.
We haven't really gamified it so much to figure out like who is really finding things
earliest. But I'm sure we could back into that, which would be kind of interesting.
When you think about just the total market size for trading crypto today, I'd imagine
that you guys have some maybe forward indicators around firms that might start by just
buying a subscription. And then you look two years later, they're in market doing
something commercially. Just curious what your views are just on where the market is
today. And if you see green shoots of new firms starting to enter the space.
It's always the institutions are coming in crypto.
That's just it's always the narrative.
And so, you know, when you talk about like, OK, who's trading crypto, the thing we have
to remember crypto is still really small.
Bitcoin is very liquid.
Right. And you can trade size.
Ethereum is liquid and you could trade size.
Solana is liquid and you can trade size, maybe XRP and a few other assets.
But once you start going beyond that list, you can't really trade size, right?
You can't trade anything meaningful.
And so if you think about like a 50 billion dollar hedge fund, right, if a 50 billion
dollar hedge fund is like, OK, I want to launch a crypto hedge fund, what is the most
amount of money you could think about launching a crypto hedge fund with if you're
trading very actively, maybe 250 million, maybe 500 million dollars.
But like once you start getting beyond that number, there's diminishing returns.
There's scalability constraints with the strategy.
And so let's say they start with 100 million dollars, 50 billion dollar fund on
management fees alone is making it close to a billion dollars or a billion dollars.
If they take that 100 million dollars and they double it, great, they made 20 million
dollars. That's two percent of what they're making on their management fee.
You start to do the math and you're like, OK, well, is it really worth it for these
very large firms and funds to start trading crypto?
What we've seen with a lot of these firms is some of them are trading crypto out of
their GP. So if they're trading partner's capital, it's a little bit of a different
situation. But a lot of them are trading CME and they're trading the ETF and they're
doing the basis between the two or doing some active trading around the Bitcoin ETF
and stuff like that. But in terms of like large traditional funds coming in and actively
trading a large number of assets that are spot crypto, I still think that's kind of
a dream scenario that we haven't hit yet.
There are some, I would say, the Chicago prop trading.
I mean, anyone prop? If you're prop, you can do it.
So there are a lot of five, ten billion dollar funds that converted into prop trading
firms that are now trading crypto.
But the challenge is once you start putting LP money on the line, it's like, OK, is it
worth making 20 million dollars?
But potentially I lose the sovereign wealth fund of this country's money and they pull
three billion dollars out of my main fund.
Right. And so that's kind of the challenge that I think we're seeing in terms of like
real widespread institutions actually buying spot crypto.
I see that, too. And I wonder if just valuation methodology and frameworks are going to be
required in order to really expand the pie, because it's one thing to just trade CME
basis trades on Bitcoin.
That's a pretty straightforward trade.
I'm not even talking about fundamental investing.
I'm talking about even systematic non-directional stuff like there's not enough liquidity
on a lot of this. Right. So let's remove the idea that crypto could be worth something.
Just the fact that, like, look, a fund is going to trade something if it's liquid and it's
volatile. If something is liquid and volatile, funds are going to be interested in trading
it because they can make money on it.
The market is not liquid enough yet.
I think if we do get broadly agreed upon fundamentals, I think that's very important because
that does mean that fundamental funds can buy and fundamental funds can buy it a lot
more size. Right. I mean, we see that with some crypto funds like multi coin has a
multi-billion dollar hedge fund.
But that hedge fund is not trading assets every minute, every hour, even every day or
every week. They're trading relatively infrequently.
And I think the crossover funds would be good examples of this, where a lot of the big
crossover funds were actually taking positions in 2021 in crypto.
A lot of them were doing like locked treasury deals with foundations where they would buy
like 200 million in locked polygon or avalanche or whatever the asset is.
I think that's a little bit different. To me, that's more like liquid investing than it
is trading. So what do you think it takes to change those dynamics around liquidity?
Hey, big exchanges need to be more in the game here.
I've been saying this for a while. I think it's ETFs.
So I think once you start getting both single and multi-asset ETFs, I think that's incredibly
important. I don't think single name ETFs are going to perform that well, maybe.
But like, I think it's more multi-asset ETFs, right?
Like when you have an asset that enters the S&P 500, all of a sudden it gets a bid and
it gets a lot more liquid. Right.
And so you have these 20 asset ETFs that start launching.
Maybe that gets expanded to 25.
All of a sudden, there's five more things that start getting a bid.
And then you get people that are looking at exposure to crypto.
Maybe they're not going to buy a single asset, but maybe they're going to buy this
bucket of assets. But on the other hand, you're also going to have a ton of demand for
that product among crypto funds that want to short it, because right now it's really
difficult to go long a single asset versus the rest of the market.
And so if you have a product where you can actually go and you can put on size to short
that product and take long single asset exposure, I think that's incredibly compelling.
Well, I guess you have the ETFs, but you also have these public access vehicles now
that are popping up in the market.
It's just a weird market on the public side.
It's feeling frothy.
What's your take on that? How long does that continue?
These sort of micro strategy clones?
I'm not an expert at everyone's liquidation price and how levered everyone is and stuff
like that. It feels like and you've been around for a long time.
Right. I mean, you remember when Kodak was launching a blockchain miner, when Long Island
ICT rebranded to Long Island blockchain, these types of things.
And I'm not saying these aren't more substantive because I think they are slightly more
substantive, but they feel similar to me.
When you take like a dead public company or somebody's like, I'm going to take a crypto
company that's losing 20 million dollars a year.
I'm going to spack it at a billion dollar valuation.
I'm going to then take the proceeds and buy Bitcoin.
We've seen a few examples of this.
It feels like frothy activity.
It's eye opening that the convert market is just wide open for business on these type of
things, because on one level you look at it and you say it feels frothy and the other
side you look at and you say, well, there's really not a world where sailor gets stomped
out, at least based on what he's done so far.
Like he's not taking the Bitcoin and taking out a cash loan against.
Well, I'm not even talking about sailor.
I'm talking about once you start doing this with other less liquid and more volatile
assets. Right. When you start launching like we've seen some of these other assets that
get I think there might be an Athena one now.
And I'm not suggesting Athena is you know, there's anything wrong with Athena, but I'm
just saying broadly, like once you start getting like a public company buying asset
number 25 by market cap, that asset's super volatile.
You have one large investor who dumps and then all of a sudden that entire thing gets
liquidated. It's a really interesting time.
Want to talk a little bit about enterprise software market over the course of the years
that you've been in the industry.
Obviously, this was probably a case where four years ago, heading into the Gensler
SEC, we thought there's going to be a world where banks and broker dealers are able to
play in this market. Obviously, post FTX, that didn't happen.
And so that buyer base for a lot of enterprise software, let's say, has been neglected
and not part of the market.
Curious how you think about some of the businesses in our space that are enterprise focused,
trying to sell into those channels.
The challenge we've seen, you had in 2021, a lot of companies raise at four, six,
eight billion dollar valuations because they had incredible growth rate and they had
material ARR, but they were trading at in some cases, 100 times forward ARR, which is
insane. In retrospect, it was insane that it's still insane in retrospect.
I think the challenge is you see a lot of these businesses, and I'm sure you're looking
at this right where you look at a wallet startup and you're like, OK, well, who's the
biggest player in the space?
What is the revenue number they hit?
Have they stalled? How much are they growing?
If you look at compliance software, who's the largest player?
Have they stalled? Are they growing?
Feels like a lot of crypto SaaS businesses.
And I'm not commenting on any business individually.
This isn't a dig at any individual business.
Correct me if I'm mistaken.
I don't think there's anyone above 200 to max 250 million in ARR from a SaaS perspective.
And to call some of the things ARR, I think is also a stretch because it's consulting
and stuff like that. Right. And so I think there's just like a natural limitation we've
seen in terms of how many firms you can actually sell into, how much demand there is.
And I'm not saying in a specific vertical, I'm saying across verticals.
Right. I mean, from a data perspective, we see the same thing.
Right. Like we see all these new data companies popping up and I'm like, OK, guys,
that's great. Like competition is great.
But, you know, the pie isn't growing.
Right. And so it's not like you can make that much money because if you think about
crypto native funds, crypto VCs do tend to have more capital than the average hedge
fund does. I would guess the average crypto hedge fund is 20 million in AUM.
And on a 220 model, you're talking they have $400,000 a year in management fees.
By the time they pay themselves and analysts, their fund admin, their custodian, they're
actually going out of pocket on the GP.
And so the thought that even though there are so many funds out there that you can
actually build a business, you know, everyone's like, oh, you guys are kind of like
Bloomberg and you're going to overtake them. I'm like, if we were trying to sell
$26,000 a year, $28,000 a year software per install, there's like 10 companies in
crypto that could afford to buy that. Right. And so it's very different.
Right. Versus selling into a 50 billion dollar fund that has a billion a year.
You're talking 400 grand a year in management fees versus a billion dollars a year in
management fees. It's obviously very different.
We're still seeing kind of this limited constraint size on the more SaaS ARR type
businesses. I think with things like stable coins, where I know you guys are very active
investors, I think that obviously creates huge unlocks and brings new players in.
But I think in terms of people looking to buy crypto specific software, I think that
market is still capacity to trade.
And I think as much as we'd like to trade at 100x multiple and others would, I think
investors have to look at it and be like, OK, well, realistically, like there is a cap
on TAM and unless that grows, the cap on what you can sell is it's there.
It's crazy to think about the past few years and just how the cap on TAM was really
regulatory driven.
Saab 121 going in in 2022 effectively just kneecapped all of the banks.
It's hard for me to think about an analogy there where an entire market, which is
obviously a huge buyer of data, just got eliminated by the stroke of a pen by one guy
at the SEC. It'll just be really interesting to see over the next couple of years.
I also just wonder about the market structure in crypto, where in traditional markets, the
exchanges would be monetizing their market data at a very aggressive clip.
And right now, that's just not the case in crypto.
There's one exchange that's really actively trying to sell their market data.
I mean, it's a big publicly listed US company.
You also have to remember that in crypto, there's a million different exchanges, there's
a million different venues.
Liquidity is spread across a lot more venues than I think is within traditional markets.
So if you want NASDAQ data, you got to go to the NASDAQ.
But in crypto, you just have a million different markets.
So I think that just naturally I just don't think they have as much power as traditional.
And also keep in mind, even if they wanted to charge, what are they going to get?
Two million dollars, like versus the amount of volume that they're generating on the
exchange, it's probably not worth it.
And if you risk trying to charge a market maker for data and then the market makers
like screw you and go somewhere else, you're probably forgoing a lot more revenue than
you would have made otherwise.
It's unclear who the sustainable long term winners are in the trading space.
And so I guess as that becomes more clear, we'll see more experimentation trying to
monetize. I'm sure people will charge for data.
I mean, I was talking to one of the large index providers the other day, TradFi index
providers, they were like, yeah, this crypto exchange asked us to pay this amount of
money and this percentage of things for our data.
So like, screw you. We just remove them from our index and no one cares.
Though it's still such a nascent market from that perspective, what are you seeing from
buy side participants in terms of looking at network data and token unlock schedules
and things like that in order to understand the market?
I think it really depends on who the firm is.
I think one of the challenges that we have in crypto is that no one agrees what fundamentals
are. And if I asked you what fundamentals were 10 years ago or five years ago or three years ago
or 10 days ago, you might give me a different answer than you're giving me now.
Right. And this is partially why we build a platform that kind of has everything, which is
also a problem because it confuses people because there's too much to look at.
The challenge is, like, what do people agree fundamentals are?
I think unlocks are pretty easy to understand because, like, if there are 50 tokens that are
live and tomorrow there are going to be 200 tokens that are live, one might assume that the price
is going to go down. So I think things like that are easy to understand.
But I think one of the challenges, and we spoke about this before we started, if you think about
what is fundamental for a tech stock, that might be very different than what is fundamental for a
food and beverage company. Like, obviously, you have EBITDA and you have revenue and you have core
top line metrics. There's very different things and very different. Look at the multiple that
Tesla trades at, right? Tesla trades at an obscene multiple, right? And so fundamentals do matter.
But I think we also need to start understanding, like, as we look at different sectors of crypto,
what are the fundamentals that we need to look at to understand each sector?
So your question was, what are buy side firms looking at now?
The unfortunate answer is it really depends. I do think there's a lot more demand for network
level metrics now. How many people are using networks? How many transactions are there on
networks? What are the fees that are generated? How much does it cost to transact?
Though people are also starting to get a lot smarter because, like, okay,
imagine you're looking at a DeFi protocol that's got 4 billion in TVL. Investors have historically
looked at is how much TVL they have. But now people are starting to peel back the onion and
they're like, okay, what is their customer concentration risk? You would never invest in
us if 90% of our revenue was coming from one customer. But if 90% of our revenue is coming
from our top 15 customers, that'd be a different story. We're starting with kind of high level
fundamentals. But I think the sophisticated investors are starting to peel back the onion
more and more and more and understanding customer concentration, understanding user retention data,
are these applications even retaining users? And I think one of the biggest things is understanding
fundamentals post incentives, right? Because all these projects have amazing fundamentals
until their incentive period ends and then no one's still using it. The more sophisticated
folks are starting to peel back the onion. But obviously, our clients range dramatically. Like,
a lot of our clients are very, very, very active event driven traders. And so for them,
fundamentals don't matter. It's really like, okay, Coinbase just listed this asset. Bye.
Yeah. It's like the liquidity landscape moves the needle way more than the marginal user coming on
board and adopting the product in a lot of cases. With relatively illiquid assets,
you're also going to see things move that don't make sense. And as much as we want to understand
them from a look, I do think things converge around fundamentals eventually. And I think they
should. I mean, that's what we're building what we're building. But it takes agreed upon
fundamentals. And also, like a penny stock might not trade based off its fundamentals, right? And
crypto does trade like penny stocks or a lot of these assets do. I guess with some regulatory
clarity, we'll see more experimentation around just what the tokens do in some of these networks.
And we'll start to think about this maybe more from a DCF perspective on some of these networks,
which also leads to the question of how should investor relations be handled by some of these
projects? It seems like it's somewhat non-existent in big parts of the market. Curious what your
views are there. The challenge is everyone was so afraid of the SEC that we concocted all of these
ridiculous models that we tried to justify around, let's have a foundation and a Dow and a
for-profit entity and a this and a that. And decentralization is really just, it's mostly
just created messes and confusion. And it's like, who's in charge of what? If you're an investor
and you want to learn more about a top 20 protocol that's pretty decentralized,
who do you go to? Who do you talk to? There's no standardization in who to actually communicate
with. And so I think there are a lot of things that need to happen there. We're doing a lot of
work to help roadshow projects in front of institutions and connect them to different
folks and build bridges because we have a really good map and understanding of,
obviously we serve as hundreds of institutions, but we also know all the big projects.
But I think it's also a matter of the projects going out, whether working with us. I mean,
we've done a lot of work with projects to help them really surface their data and tell their
narrative, but it doesn't necessarily need to be with us. It's with anyone else. You go on Apple's
IR website and you'll get details about Apple. You'll get quarterly reports. You'll be able to
listen to earnings calls. When you go and you approach a protocol, you should be able to get
the same thing. If you're an investor and an asset, you should be getting information about
that asset, what they're doing, what their roadmap is, how they're growing, how much
revenue they're generating, what their cashflow is, all metrics like that. And I think also
projects need to take control of their own narrative as well. Again, we were talking
about this earlier. If you take three random assets, take Ethereum, Hyperliquid, and one that
we were talking about before, which isn't yet live on exchanges, but Canton, all of those assets are
very different. They're all going to have very different fundamentals. They can't be valued and
viewed the same way. And so I think it's up to projects. We do a lot of work. We actually help
projects build dashboards and analytics to tell their story, but it's up to projects to get this
story out there that they want to get out there. So take, for example, Avalanche. Avalanche has
the C chain, but Avalanche also has all of the L1s. And the problem is when you go on any public
data site, you're actually only seeing about 5% of the activity on the Avalanche network.
We launched a website called Frosty Metrics. It's a free to use website for the public.
Anyone can go on. We have a free API, MIT Open Source. You can use it. You can access it.
We've done a lot of work on actually supporting and indexing and storing the data on all the L1s
so that investors can actually get a more comprehensive picture. Because if you go and
you're like, oh, I'm looking at Avalanche for Solana, if you're just looking at the C chain,
it's just completely not reflective of everything going on in the market. And so
my point being with all of this is I think from an IR perspective, protocols need to be more
proactive. They should be hiring heads of investor relations or heads of institutional or whatever
they want to call it. And then I think they need to be proactive about getting their narrative out
there as well, because it's their job to help investors understand their protocol. And investors
don't want to talk to the CTO and the founding team because they don't understand what they're
saying. And investors can understand fundamentals. And also just managing your cap table, right?
We have a big investor that's wanting to get out of this position. How are we going to think
about that in the context? You would see that at a publicly traded company.
Yeah. I don't want this investor dumping a hundred million of my token on the market,
especially if it's some VCs aren't necessarily, they're not traders, right? And so they don't
necessarily know how to spread an order over a very long period of time. The last thing you
want to do is call up an OTC desk and say, Hey, I want to sell a hundred million dollars on this
thing. Right? Exactly. The other thing I think about in the context of these companies or protocols
on a go-forward basis is what does it look like to exit from a protocol? I mean, we've seen
ICO era companies just sitting on a boatload of Ethereum with not shipping a product. The chain
is still somewhat there, but at least in the equity market, we'll see some exits. Hopefully
we'll see a lot more IPOs. I wonder if there's an M&A landscape that comes in the protocol side,
or if these things are just zombies for 20 years. I mean, I think it's also who does the assets
belong to? In my view, the assets that are being held by the treasury, the token holders should
ultimately be able to get those assets back, which is not the case. I mean, there are so many ICOs
that I'm sure your listeners don't even remember. I don't like calling out individual projects,
but there's one I know of. 2017 L1 ICO, they raised a hundred and something million dollars
in ETH. I think they're sitting on over a billion dollars in tokens on their balance sheet.
Their market cap maybe is $30 million or $50 million or something. There's no reason to ship
a product. If the token doubles, it does nothing for them. All the investors benefited zero out of
that. And I think actually ARCA has historically been somewhat proactive on some of these things
and submitted governance proposals and tried to, if I'm not mistaken, I think started with an A.
I'm blanking on the protocol that returned a bunch of tokens to their Aragon. I think
they did, yeah. I think they returned a bunch of tokens to their investors. And I think there
should be more proactive governance as well, which I think will enable some of this. But in terms of
M&A, I think there's also, you have instances in which there are dead coins sitting on exchanges,
and there are new assets that are trying to get listed that can't access those markets.
So if they could kind of smack into those tokens and bring value and token holder value
into those assets and get access to markets, I mean, I think that's interesting. I think there's
lots of very interesting things that can happen in crypto. And I think some things just need to
permanently go to zero as well. It's natural in technology that a new version of the technology
comes across and you're no longer competitive. And the way that would typically work itself out is
either you go out of business, declare bankruptcy, you get sold, but there's really not a mechanism
for that in crypto. You just kind of stick around. Again, I'm not trying to shit on projects,
but Bitcoin Cash still exists and has a real market cap. Like Litecoin still exists and has
a real market cap. Things just stick around in crypto despite having no... And that's why earlier
I talked about the importance of community. Maybe there are fundamentals behind Litecoin. I don't
know. Maybe there is. It's cheaper Bitcoin. I know that's what people have said historically,
right? Or Bitcoin Cash or even BSV still has some level of a market cap, right?
Which is incredible. Yeah.
Incredible. If you haven't claimed and sold your BSV, if you had old Bitcoin, I implore you to.
I don't even know if it's still listed anywhere.
I don't think it's still listed anywhere, but that's why community matters because
community can keep dead projects alive in crypto.
You mentioned Canton. How do you think about that market opportunity to go into
more traditional regulated financial services firms and give them some of the privacy features
they're looking for? There seems to be a lot of demand there from some of the participants
that are looking at an ecosystem like that. Yeah. For anyone who doesn't know the backstory
behind Canton, just to provide a little backstory. Digital Asset is a company that
was started or spun out of DRW about 10 years ago or so. Over the last 10 years,
they developed a smart contract language called DAML and they had 50 or more different enterprises,
including Goldman Sachs and Broadridge and TradeWeb and other big names that were basically building
private permissioned blockchains on top of DAML. They introduced something called the Canton Network,
which basically enables these separate private blockchains to communicate. Imagine on one hand,
you have Goldman's node. On the other hand, you have JP Morgan's. In order for those two to
communicate, Goldman would have historically had to actually run a node for JP Morgan on
their private blockchain and JP Morgan would have had to run a node for Goldman in their private
blockchain. You had these private blockchains, but they couldn't take advantage of interoperability.
What Canton introduces is what's called a global synchronizer that allows these private permission
chains to communicate with one another. A lot of the thesis was that there would be a lot of demand.
If Bank One wants to make a trade with Bank Two and they want to settle that trade with the Fed
and send settlement instructions to another counterparty, they could do that. The reason
privacy is so important is because in financial markets, with Swift and other things, most
transactions are bilateral. If you're Goldman and you're making a transaction, you probably
don't want to be broadcasting to the world what's in that transaction. With transactions on Canton,
the only thing that is public is the amount of Canton coin that's used in the transaction
and the two parties. We know that party A made a transaction with party B and this much Canton was
using the transaction. For example, if you're transacting a lot of stable coins, there's
complete privacy on that transaction. Party A sent $500 million in stable coins to party B.
You wouldn't know that. You would just know that there was $1 in Canton coin used for that
transaction. There is an increasingly large amount of demand for privacy,
particularly in stable coin transactions. I think there's even some regulatory requirements
in some cases. Folks like Broadridge that have been out and pretty big advocates for Canton,
they're doing trillions and trillions in repo transactions per month on their permission subnet
on Canton. They, among others, are excited about the global synchronizer, which is going to enable
this cross-node communication. I apologize if that wasn't a perfect explanation.
I think it's a really good explanation. I think the stable coin private transactions is just
clearly, there's so much demand in the market for that, even at a retail level. You think about
international payroll use cases and not wanting everyone that works at the same company to know
what their cubicle made is getting paid. I think there's just some-
Or just even inner company transfers. We're sending money to ourselves. We don't want to
see that. Or market makers sending funds to exchange. They don't want people to see what
they're sending to exchanges. People are trading based off of that information and stuff like that.
I think there is a real use case in demand for privacy that's not trying to evade
regulations or sanctions. It's just, you want to have privacy in transactions. You don't know how
much money banks are sending each other and how much money I'm sending to my bank account or
anything else. Why should that be public? What was it that got you so excited about
building products and services in that ecosystem? Was it just that you saw that there was a herd
coming here, there's going to be a need for data information about this blockchain?
I give a lot of credit to the DA team for getting me excited about what they're doing. Obviously,
we're very close with a lot of the other participants in the network and we have been
for a while. It's talking to some of these financial institutions that have 80 engineers
working on building on Dammel and you're like, oh wow, there's real people that are deploying
real resources into this ecosystem and have been doing it for a while. I think that was partially
it. We're just very close with a lot of the participants in the network, like Cumberland
and a bunch of the banks and others. I got excited and we've been active on the network
since Testnet. We've been active for a while and it was also exciting to feel like we were getting
in on the ground floor with something that I think is a big opportunity.
All right, Josh, I feel like we could talk for hours here and this is so fascinating,
but maybe just as we wrap this up, you've built a business that's profitable, which
congratulations, very few people are doing that in crypto, but how have you thought about that
decision versus raising venture dollars and curious just what's next for the tie over the
next couple of years? I think that actually goes back to our
question around SaaS tab in crypto. The question is, if you raise more money,
is there a buyer for that business? And I think there are a lot of companies,
for example, in our space that have over-raised, that raised at $300, $400 million valuations
at very large multiples of their revenue. And so for one, I've been of the view of I'm only
going to raise once I know that the outcome for my investors is going to be big enough to justify
another raise. If I'm going to raise at 400, I want to make sure that my investors get out at
at least a billion. There's a return for them. I think that's partially it. But I think the
other thing too is probably the most valuable insight I have, but I've learned over the last
eight years of doing this, that in crypto, sometimes it's not the best thing to chase
the traditional valuation metric that all investors care about like SaaS, ARR, GRR, NRR,
roll of 50, like all of those different metrics. Those are obviously important metrics, but they
shouldn't define your entire strategy as a founder. If there's an opportunity to make money,
then it's wacky and weird. Take it, take it. Your job is to maximize shareholder value. And so I
think part of the reason we've been able to build a profitable business is because we've been very,
very flexible. And I think we're lucky because we don't have a giant mandate from our shareholders
to do one thing or the other. We don't really have investors on our cap table. And so we've been able
to do wacky things. I mean, we have very large positions in tokens. In some cases, we're doing
deals that have zero cash components. They're all token. We're taking a ton of upside. We're
doing call options with tokens. We're doing all sorts of wacky stuff to make money. But
we've learned that sometimes in crypto, you kind of have to do that in order to make money
versus if we just tried to sell in 751st, it doesn't move them needle enough in terms of
growing a business. In terms of what's next for us, the biggest thing for us has always been the
terminal. That's kind of our core. We have this terminal and that enables the rest of our
businesses. Because we have this amazing terminal product, other companies want to license our data
and build products using our data. So now we have a lot of new crypto protocols that are using our
data as part of the protocols they're building, or we have exchanges that are licensing our data,
or we can do connectivity with institutions for tokens and different things like that. And so
for me, it's always been the terminal. And so for me, in terms of where we're going,
I think one of the biggest takeaways that we've had, we built by far the most complicated
product in crypto. We've overcomplicated crypto data. I mean, we've built a product that's
akin to a Faxeter Bloomberg type experience for crypto, with, by the way, an incredible
amount of customizability. So users can not only use the platform, but they can actually access
all of our raw data in SQL. They can build their own components. They can pipe in external data
in Python. So imagine you wanted to use coin metrics data and the tie data and amber data data
and flip side data all in a single thing. You could do that, which is incredibly useful.
We realized we were letting our five power users drive our strategy for our thousands
of regular users. And so what we've really been focused on as a company is really how do we
actually just like tell people what matters? Obviously, we want to give them optionality,
but the biggest takeaway and the biggest learning that I've had as a founder is that people tell
you they want all of these features and all of these things. But at the end of the day,
they just want to know what they should look at as it relates to what we're doing.
I mean, one really cool example, this is the first time to talk about it. One of the things
we've had on the platform is research. So we actually aggregate research from about 40 or 50
OTC desks and theoretically and other service providers and asset managers. And that's really
cool. You could come onto the platform and you could see research. You're not going to read
through 40 different research reports to get insights. And so now we've basically aggregated
all the research. We've aggregated every single podcast and we've aggregated all of conference
content, including all of our conferences. And now you can go and you can see trends on top of it.
So what are the top 10 topics that are being most discussed in the short term versus the long term?
How is that changing? What are the subtopics? Okay, ETH is really hot. What are people talking
about around ETH? And then actually being able to see like, okay, I want to go see the specific
mentions of this specific topic point across different podcasts and research pieces and
conferences and things like that. And to me, that's more like, okay, we're taking all this
information that we have, and then we're condensing it into insights and then letting people kind of
start at the insight level and then peel back and dive deeper into like, okay, on this podcast,
we talked about Canton. Maybe that's a trending topic. Somebody wants to see where that's talked
about and then dive deeper into that topic. That's incredibly valuable. I do that just naturally
listening to like 20 podcasts a weekend on crypto stuff, but to have the ability to aggregate here's
where people are talking about Canton or Maple. That's very valuable. And that just one example
of the types of things that we're working on where, for example, one thing we built with news,
some more experience, we had this thing called the News Firehose where we pulled in 10,000 news
stories a day or whatever it was. Super overwhelming. Now you can come in and you can see what are the
10 stories being written the most and retweeted the most today? And what are the things that
people are talking about on social the most? We actually separated that. So you can now come on
what's being talked about in the news, what's being talked about in social and what's happening
on chain. It's really like, how do you take all the raw data and distill insights is really what
we've learned as opposed to like giving people ultimate customizability, which they think they
want, but my experience is they don't want. Well, Josh, congrats on what you've built.
Where can we send people to learn more about the tie? You can follow the tie on Twitter at the tie
IO. You can go to our website, the tie.io. You can also follow me. I'm not really as active as
I should be on social, but it's at Joshua underscore Frank underscore on Twitter, I think. All right.
We'll put it in the show notes. All right. Well, thanks for doing this, Josh. Good to see you.
Thanks for having me on. Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To find out more about Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc. To listen to all of our podcast
episodes, please go to onthebrink-podcast.com or just click on the tab in our website. Thanks for
listening.
