TITLE: Digital Asset Alpha Strategies and Regulation with Jeff Park (Bitwise) [Castle Island Ventures]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Jeff_Park_AUDIO

TRANSCRIPT:
Today on the podcast, I sat down with Jeff Park, the head of Alpha Strategies at Bitwise.
Jeff is one of the sharpest minds for the market space within digital assets, and I
was happy to have him back on the show.
In this episode, we discussed the evolving landscape for digital asset alpha strategies,
talked about the regulatory landscape, micro strategy, and much more.
I think you'll enjoy this one.
So without further ado, here's my conversation with Jeff Park at Bitwise.
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets discussed on this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression
of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by bad mortgage investments, Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be
liquidated.
The federal government loans American International Group, AIG, $85 billion.
This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage
giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin.
Bitcoin.
Jeff, well, thanks so much for joining us today on the podcast.
We were just saying before we hit record, it's three years for you into Bitwise.
So probably feels like it's been 10, but congratulations on your three year anniversary.
Thank you, Matt.
You were there with me since the beginning of this journey and I know you're slamming
away and busy as I am, but the good news is we're both busy for all the amazing reasons
to be excited about, perhaps not as being busy for all the things we have to navigate
the past three years.
So super pumped to be here.
Well, I'm excited to chat with you and definitely Bitwise, we're obviously investors and so
full disclosure there.
You guys have been completely cranking.
Obviously the ETF business gets a lot of the headlines, but fill us in on just what Bitwise
is up to.
What are the lines of business?
And then maybe dovetail that into what you're specifically building.
So Bitwise, believe it or not, today is over 100 people.
That may sound like small numbers to some folks in the tech space, but in crypto asset
management, I think that is incredibly formidable and it shows you that the investment we've
made into the firm for the past seven, eight years now has come to fruition.
We also manage about $10 billion plus in assets, which is in itself a milestone as a U.S. crypto
asset manager.
So it's been great.
It's been really exciting.
Last year, we made our first international foray to pursue the European market through
the acquisition of ETC Group, which is exciting.
And we also have made a footprint into the frontier of on-chain solutions with the acquisition
of a testant.
So the long-term vision of Bitwise has been the same as it always has been from the beginning,
which is to help investors access the most interesting opportunities in the crypto arena.
Most of it will be in the traditional infrastructure that you and I know.
But we do believe in the future, there will be tons of things to do on-chain.
And that is actually something I think that is super interesting at the intersection of
some of the Alpha-centric work that I get to contribute to at Bitwise as well.
That's awesome.
Well, I'd love to double click on that Alpha strategy.
And how do you guys talk about what that actually is?
This obviously is a little bit of a newer business relative to the beta products that
were launched originally and have gathered so much AUM over time.
But how do you guys think about that world on the Alpha side?
So Alpha is in many ways a journey that many crypto investors experience over time as to
the kinds of exposures they seek when they first enter crypto.
Initially, you'll find most people allocate into Bitcoin and other beta-centric exposure
to learn about crypto.
And as they go down the rabbit hole, they realize there's actually a lot of complexity
and really interesting things that are happening underneath the hood that can also harness
unique properties of crypto that can be orthogonal to the price action of crypto itself.
So we have a lot of different things at Bitwise where we try to enthuse that alignment.
Do you know that we had the chance to chat about the inaugural effort three years ago
having launched around a multi-strategy effort where we harness a variety of Alpha-centric
opportunities within the crypto market structure itself.
And there are other investors today now where they realize, hey, Bitcoin is really a big
number at $100K, where the assets themselves, dollar-denominated, are quite significant
to actually just hold it in cold storage in a way that it is not useful.
So there's also interests in folks who are saying, hey, we have a bunch of Bitcoin and
we actually want to earn something off of this.
What can you do for us?
Because we're talking about yield on top of the price action that is Bitcoin-denominated,
which can be added to the total portfolio return.
So here, the thing that I am really just enthused about from day one and even more so today
is that many people come to crypto to get exposure for the price action.
But really, another way to get exposure to crypto is actually the volatility underneath
it.
If there's one single property that makes crypto so uniquely harnessable for different
yield opportunities that doesn't match what other traditional assets provide, it's volatility.
So we have a lot of volatility, optimization, income-oriented strategies that we also look
to offer to our clients.
And most excitingly, we are actually also launching a suite of options income strategies
in an ETF format at the end of March as well.
These will actually cover your beloved crypto equities names, where we believe there's also
the same opportunity that you can optimize to earn a volatility premium off of some of
these crypto equities like MicroStrategy and Coinbase and the miners, et cetera.
That's awesome. I'm excited to see that launch.
Would love to just maybe talk a little bit about the yield that you're talking about
and how you bifurcate the available universe of where you might access that yield in terms
of the type of instruments and also curious if you've looked on chain and if anything
is interesting in that category in terms of accessing yield.
Yeah, absolutely.
So there's three broad categories as I define the sub-strategy taxonomy of yield when it
comes to Bitcoin.
The first is what many are already familiar with at some level, which is lending.
So lending historically could have gotten a bad reputation for having been involved
in liquidations in the past where there were issues as it relates to custody.
But the reality is we're in a new era where there's going to be more services offered
in a regulated format that allows proper lending.
And Bitcoin obviously is an asset for which there is need for capacity to borrow.
So the unlocked ETF actually has accomplished that some investors may not realize is that
ETFs for the first time allowed Bitcoin investors to participate in the lending market
without taking custodial risk.
You no longer have to think about lending your Bitcoin to an exchange like Coinbase
or FTX, et cetera.
You actually just had regulated ETFs in which you could participate in the securities lending
market without any custody risk.
And the future is that it's going to emerge at some point where those standards will have
to comply for token holdings as well.
And so today, if you are able to find the right infrastructure, the right agreements
in a way that protects you from these remote risk events, there is an opportunity to earn
yield whether on a rehypothecated basis or not on a rehypothecated basis that is better
than zero.
And that in itself should clear the hurdle for the desire to be outside of cold custody
if you believe you've set up the right structure.
But what's really interesting is when you add more features around the financial utility
of Bitcoin itself from that market.
So the next thing that I feel most people into it is again, volatility harvesting.
Bitcoin volatility is not only high, but it's also really unstable.
And actually, Bitcoin vol doesn't behave the ways that traditional investors are used
to where they imagine if the price of a stock goes down 20%, you usually imagine implied
volatility would explode to the upside and vice versa.
And what you actually observe in crypto is that none of these relationships are that
sticky.
In fact, I might even point to the last three weeks where you were seeing Bitcoin essentially
go down in price, but implied volatility also went down in that same period.
So that's an unusual relationship, but it also means there's a lot of opportunities
to be able to make prescient bets about directionality within volatility itself.
So if you're able to do those on some longer term tenors, you can actually earn high double
digit type yields, where we are not taking a lot of risk in the assignment of those bitcoins
being called away from you.
So for example, today, you could actually sell about a $110,000 strike on Bitcoin that
expires in basically three weeks, end of March, and you can get double digit return.
And there will be investors who say, hey, bitcoins at 85 today, if I have the chance
to sell it at 110k in three weeks, I'm happy to do it and if not, I'll get 10%.
It's not a bad trade.
So those things I think are becoming more possible.
It's becoming made more aware.
And I think the fact that Saab 121 being repealed, permissioning now the likes of Goldman and
others to come into this space to offer these types of services to institutions with a face
that they're familiar with, will mean that it's going to accelerate.
We're just going to see more people who want to do things with Bitcoin.
And that's why I think having an alpha component within the comprehensive framework of offering
crypto related investment advisory is key, because Bitcoin is still the story for institutions
at large and it is, I think, a trend that is going to continue.
That's awesome.
Well, I'd love to talk a little bit more around how the regulatory landscape has changed.
So you mentioned Saab 121 going away, obviously even having the ETFs approved before the change
of administration was huge.
But now we're looking at a stablecoin bill, we're looking at hopefully a market structure
bill.
How is that actually changing your world in terms of who you're seeing coming into this
market and what options might be available to you in terms of the infrastructure to actually
run these strategies?
So on the ETF front, the ability to imagine diversifying custodial partners is in itself
something everyone has been wondering about for a long time now.
And Saab 121 was going to accelerate that because the traditional entities that were
not allowed to participate will now be able to come in and offer services.
There's other factors around ETFs for which there was some concerns as to the near perfect
state we would have to achieve, one being that in-kind contribution and redemption would
have to be permissible outside of cash.
And those things will start to be in motion with regulatory adoption in the direction
that you're alluding to.
There's of course complexity behind it within the definitional scope of broker dealers,
but that is one that I think is moving along.
The other of course is staking.
It's not relevant to Bitcoin, but the reality is most other proof of stake tokens have a
component of income that is not being captured efficiently by the current US ETF structure,
because the global ETF structures actually do provide staking income.
So if the US wants to be competitive and on a level foot, this is something that is also
on the top of the agenda.
But broadly speaking, stablecoins I think is the most interesting thing that is happening
this year.
And it is I think being underestimated by most of the community at large how quickly
it's going to happen.
And you pay attention to this as closely as anyone, but the reality is it's going to be
more likely the thing that is at the top of anyone else's agenda on the legislative
front that will make a splash in the coming, let's say, three to four months.
And the opportunities there for alpha strategies is actually pretty extensive as well.
Because if you think about what alpha strategies do, ultimately, it is market making at the
core of having some exchange structure for all kinds of assets in which stablecoins is
a big component of CryptoTAM.
So if you think about new stablecoin protocols coming to life, where there might be associated
yield around some of the incentives to participate into a new ecosystem, such as an airdrop,
for example, the ability to participate in that stablecoin economy in an alpha centric
way is just going to become larger.
And then on top of that, you add financial primitives like a Pendle where you can actually
strip away the PT and YT in a way to capture that airdrop premium and lock in that discount
factor means you can actually start trading some of the more esoteric value captures,
even though it's just stablecoins.
Yeah, that's fascinating.
But the stablecoin economy is just going to give you a lot of alpha opportunity for those
who are able to navigate it.
So when we talk about things like lending or selling calls on things that are liquid
and I guess already to some extent understood by the market, that leads me to believe you're
going to have more traditional entrance.
But when you start talking about something like a Pendle, it just seems like it's going
to be years before you have the more traditional asset managers and fund managers coming into
this market.
What do you think this is going to look like over the next few years?
It feels like there's almost a levels game here within the crypto economy that you need
to step up the levels in order to actually understand where some of these opportunities
are.
Yeah, I agree.
And I continue to think this is why there is a huge moat for asset managers that are
crypto native at heart and is able to tackle some of these frontier opportunities with
the institutional rigor that it demands from an operational perspective.
We talked about lending and vol harvesting, but the third thing we hadn't mentioned was
what you alluded to on chain opportunities.
So if you think about Maple, for example, where it's creating a new primitive of a lending
market in a transparent way that is relatively vanilla, the idea of posting Bitcoin collateral
in an over collateralized fashion to earn a yield.
There are private placement hedge fund structures that try to do this strategy for you.
But there's literally no liquidity.
There's no transparency, even though I'm sure it's well intentioned.
And it just doesn't really have all the superior qualities of a DeFi protocol.
So the other way to earn yield off of crypto assets is being able to participate in these
new primitives where you're able to earn a yield off of assets just like Bitcoin.
You could earn double digits just really lending stablecoins against that borrow pool.
And those types of things will be still, I think, most accessible to crypto native organizations
like Bitwise, where we actually have to spend a lot of time worrying about the regulatory
constructs and things we may or may not want to touch.
But if any window opens for the ability to participate, chances are we're going to figure
out before anybody else, because it's all we do.
It's all we focus on.
We know exactly when Anchorage rolls out their QC offering to a DeFi protocol token that
you may never have heard of and when it gets whitelisted.
And having the ability to be a front mover in those types of opportunities is, I think,
part of the alpha capture that we were trying to share with our clients in a very safe,
regulated, and efficient manner.
The past few weeks have been really interesting to just be a participant in this market where
everything is going right on one dimension, where you have the SEC has come in and taken
immediate steps.
Hester Paris and Mark Ueda have been very front foot oriented in terms of dropping some
of these lawsuits and putting out the request for comments and really trying to work with
the industry to get past the last four years.
But obviously asset prices are just whipsawing and down only and people seem very depressed
in some level.
So what's your take on just what's going on here?
It's fascinating because I feel when we tried it last, it was, I think it was maybe two
weeks before FTX imploded, Matt, when we recorded our first episode and that was the beginning
of the regulatory challenges that the industry would face.
And as you've said, we've emerged on the other side where it is actually more open
than it ever has been.
So you would think there should be euphoria in the market around opportunity set.
And yet the sentiment on Twitter and generally with all coin price action hasn't reflected
it.
I have a reason to believe why this is the case.
And one of the reasons I think is because the crypto market this cycle has fundamentally
changed versus prior cycles because of the launch of the Bitcoin ETFs.
So what do I mean by that?
What I mean is, historically, people traded altcoins in a way to think about getting
levered exposure to Bitcoin beta with a lead lag relationship to the Bitcoin bull market.
So Bitcoin would be performing and then the altcoins would generally follow in the euphoria
as well.
And that would be a way to move your Bitcoin house money wings to DeFi protocols or altcoins
and get more levered capture.
That capital flow at some level became muted in 2024 and 2025.
And the reason is because the financialization of Bitcoin itself allows you to stay in the
sandbox of Bitcoin risk with leverage.
The Bitcoin options market, for example, got approved last year.
And as of December, now we have a regulated Bitcoin options market.
So if you actually want 10x beta on your capital outlay, you can actually just trade Bitcoin
options.
You can trade out of the money long dated Bitcoin options and replicate a similar exposure
without the dirty basis risk of altcoin, whether you may or may not be able to anticipate the
relationship and the correlation.
You also, of course, have seen the rise of micro strategy, which is single handedly
the vehicle that institutions are using to express Bitcoin risk with risk preferences
along the capital structure.
So all of these traditional securities like options markets, micro strategy, the 2x levered
micro strategy ETFs, if you will, when add to the mix is sucking the capital of risk
appetite away from altcoins.
Because these exist now where investors can chase the same thrill of taking high beta
bets without having to take some weird basis risk on trading a narrative token that they
may or may not feel like they are inside the ability to navigate.
And for that reason, I continue to believe that most of the interesting opportunities
to generate alpha is going to come discretionarily from the ability to navigate Bitcoin.
That makes sense.
And so let's talk about Bitcoin.
How do you think about Bitcoin over the past few weeks?
Is this just a global macro asset trading on tariff news?
How do you conceptualize the movements here?
Because you have to imagine now a lot of the flows that came in last year is through the ETFs
that there's a percentage of investors whose pulse is more in sync with traditional markets
than historically when what may have been a little bit more detached from the regular
TradFi market participants.
So we have to assume that's the case.
And when you do that, there's a few assumptions that come with it.
The first is that these investors are generally looking at Bitcoin as a relative opportunity
cost versus something else.
In the past, if you're a Bitcoin investor, you were not necessarily doing that.
You were just in Bitcoin and that was your trade.
But now you have the BlackRock clients of the world, the Bitwise clients of the world,
who's actually thinking about Bitcoin in a broader context of portfolio construction.
So what happens is when the volatility of non-crypto assets rise beyond expectations,
the implied holding opportunity cost of Bitcoin also has risen.
What I mean is, if you're buying NVIDIA and Apple and Bitcoin, and all of a sudden NVIDIA
goes down 30% and you think NVIDIA is actually a better value capture in which the margin of
safety is now improved because it went down 30%, chances are you're going to sell Bitcoin
to buy NVIDIA that you think it's dislocated because the volatility went up.
So what we're seeing at some level is that rising volatility of non-crypto assets does
suck away capital to stay within the Bitcoin complex as well.
And that is one of the reasons why I think that it has behaved this way in a more correlated way
where gold, for example, has been immune.
And the reason gold has been immune is because even though gold and Bitcoin might share the same
thesis, gold is not volatile.
So the impetus to trading Bitcoin as a volatility expression is not nearly as cute for gold
investors.
And that's, I think, one of the reasons why gold has outperformed Bitcoin in this particular
window.
Not because people are necessarily making a bet on gold's unique properties versus Bitcoin
as a store of value for its moment of now.
There's technical dynamics as well with what has been observed in the Bank of England with
gold in general, needing of a borrow market, but the broader picture being the people that
are selling to buy NVIDIA, they're not going to sell gold to buy NVIDIA.
They're going to sell the other volatile thing that is no longer as useful as NVIDIA is
volatile, which is Bitcoin.
And that's what I'm going to sell.
.
That's a really interesting lens on it.
And that makes a lot of sense.
Earlier in the conversation, you brought up micro strategy.
And I think I've told you before that you are the person I look to to just tell me what's
going on with micro strategy.
I feel like this thing started as just a public filing that we are going to put some Bitcoin on
our balance sheet and has just changed into much more than that.
Obviously, this is packaging of financial instruments that some people haven't seen in
quite a while.
So how do you explain what micro strategy is actually doing to investors that are asking
you for input?
I think of micro strategy as essentially the altcoin of TratFi.
It's a good frame on it.
It's got this unique feature where it has volatility that looks a little bit different
than Bitcoin.
For example, yesterday, micro strategy, I think was up like 10% and Bitcoin was up maybe one.
So you already see that micro strategy behaves a little bit differently, more akin to altcoin
behavior that TratFi investors can find access to.
The other unique property with micro strategy really is that there's demand for it because
there are still some retail investors who are not allowed to buy the Bitcoin ETF.
Unbelievably, I believe there are still some brokerages that will not permit you to buy
the BlackRock, Bitwise, Bitcoin ETF, but they'll let you buy micro strategy.
So there's going to be a demand for that from a structural perspective.
But the part that I think is just most compelling for the institutional audience is that the
capital structure itself is diverse enough that you can trade relative value in a thoughtful
way to extract alpha that is more than just trading Bitcoin's directionality.
So as you may know, micro strategy has fairly simple capital structure, but a lot of different
instruments at the very top being the converts, but now actually there's a preferred equity
piece in between and above the common equity.
So there's actually a buffet of which micro strategy security is your risk preference
expression.
And because everyone comes in with a different risk preference that is not related to how
the other securities are priced, the person who can look at all three can find arbitrage
opportunities.
I think that is also the reason why micro strategy, the options market, the convert markets
and its size has actually become the biggest out of any single security.
I think there was a day last year when micro strategy stock volume exceeded Nvidia on a
daily basis, which was a historic thing.
And the reason is the financialization of Bitcoin is the most interesting thing for
most people to find exposure to.
And again, we mentioned there's a 2X leverage ETF.
There's also the covered call ETF that has been released by certain peers.
So there's essentially a lot of financialization around Bitcoin via micro strategy that has
created a very interesting market.
And is there any end in sight to Sailor's ability to raise capital if Bitcoin keeps
on going up?
He doesn't have the Silvergate loan in place anymore where it was a cash loan against
Bitcoin collateral and he could have gotten liquidated at a certain level.
It seems there isn't much of a risk of a liquidation in any way.
So is this something that could run for a while here?
It's a great question.
There are different levers that now Sailor has built for the vehicle to access the capital
markets.
For the longest time, the ATM of its equity offering was perhaps the most scalable one
in which any time it was trading at a fairly rich premium to what the valuation framework
should permit, then you can actually dilute it to raise more capital to buy more Bitcoin.
The convertible bond issuance is slightly different in what their investors are seeking
to accomplish in the end, which has a little bit more of some context dependence to where
the absolute yield curve is, as well as the volatility of Bitcoin.
So it's not directly a reflection on the price of micro strategy that creates an outlet.
And then most interestingly, the preferred equity is actually the most detached from
the price action of Bitcoin in itself.
The preferred is actually the security that gets the least amount of attention, as I can
tell, but I find it by far the most interesting piece in the puzzle of its capital structure.
And the reason is the preferred equity is non callable.
You know that most preferred equities are issued by bank entities for red cap purposes,
and they have a call where essentially when yields compress to a level in which it is
not efficient, the banks will call it and retire it early.
But micro strategies doesn't have that.
Instead, what it has is a convertibility feature into a common at a 10 to 1 ratio.
But what this actually means is that as long as interest rates are at a level where it's
pretty high, then you can earn that yield for a very long time.
And there's nothing that the issuer can do to retire the note.
The only path to ridding it is conversion to equity.
So the preferred equity has actually multiple ways to win, which is number one,
rates duration.
So if you feel that interest rate today is too high at 4.2, 4.3, and it may go down to
2% in the next two years, the principle of this preferred equity will be doubled.
It's trading 95 today, it's going to go to 200 just on rates duration itself,
because again, there's no expiration, it's a perpetual security.
So you'll make money when rates go down.
If Bitcoin goes up a bunch, then you do have the call option to convert it at a 10 to 1 ratio.
So then you do get the upside of micro strategies participation.
So you also win if Bitcoin price goes up irrespective of yield.
So you have the security which allows you to win in multiple ways, where there's a
relationship between Bitcoin price and long term rates.
But in the event that it doesn't materialize, where rates go down, but Bitcoin doesn't rally,
the preferred equity is actually the one that's going to outperform all three.
So I find it to be the most interesting security.
I think it makes so much sense for someone to use that as a way to hedge their exposure,
in fact, to Bitcoin.
If you had to imagine two security you wanted to own in the Bitcoin complex that was going
to behave differently, I would say you should buy the preferred equity and Bitcoin.
And that as a 60-40 portfolio is pretty compelling.
And actually, I think it would have shown you the last two months,
the prefect equity went from 80 to 100.
And now it's I think around 95.
So it's done well.
And Bitcoin obviously has gone down.
So that's a great uncorrelated portfolio right there.
Modern portfolio theory 60-40 with a crypto flavor.
That's really interesting.
I hadn't thought about it that way.
But it's a fascinating capital structure.
Do you think that this is a model that more than one company can run in a specific geography?
Obviously, you have other companies that are putting Bitcoin on the balance sheet,
but definitely not as aggressive as this.
But there is a playbook that Sailor has put out there,
and you see some of the miners are starting to do it.
How many of these things will the market support, do you think?
I think you nailed the key word, which is purge geography.
I do think that there's going to be a champion,
a jurisdictional winner, if you will, across different markets,
where their micro strategy equivalent will be the winner eats all.
As you see in Japan, for example, Metal Planet is micro strategy,
and they are participating in a winner eats all market
of being the dominant source of liquidity.
So I do think there is a moat there with scale,
mostly because capital is while abundant,
one in which the more you offer, the more pricing leverage you have.
So if you're trying to issue large convertible bonds,
you can go after large pools of capital that only micro strategy
can permit on their balance sheet because of its market cap
in a way that smaller companies just will not be able to issue those kinds of sizes.
The credit market tends to thrive on size.
That being said, I do think more companies are still going to adopt
the Bitcoin treasury standard of buying Bitcoin on their balance sheet.
This, I think, is irrelevant of trying to become the next micro strategy.
It's just a natural way that companies are realizing
how they might want to create some hedge with their treasury.
And it's actually really smart.
I was talking to a friend of mine who actually just recently became
the CFO of a public company.
And I was telling him, the first thing you should really consider
is you should buy some Bitcoin on your balance sheet.
And the reason you should do it is because even though
you're a billion dollar market cap company,
there are people who might be short selling it for different reasons
that has to do with secular issues with the sector you're in.
But if you own Bitcoin on your balance sheet,
you actually become a little bit unshortable
because there's a little bit of that exogenous risk
that a PM has to underwrite that they don't want to underwrite.
They might think this business is crap,
but I don't actually want to short something that owns Bitcoin.
And so I'm not going to short it.
So the EV of a CFO in creating enterprise value
by owning just a little Bitcoin is actually strategic,
regardless of whether you think Bitcoin is going to go up or not.
And I cite Tesla as a great example because Tesla,
once upon a time, was a heavily shorted name.
And you can actually track the day that it offered
to share that it had Bitcoin on its balance sheet,
the short interest actually collapsed.
And it is because there are no PMs or sell-side research
that's going to underwrite price targets
when Bitcoin is the underlying thing
that they're not going to be able to control.
So if you believe most companies are going to adopt crypto
at some level on their balance sheet,
they're going to participate in the Bitcoin economy regardless.
So one of the products that Bitwise is bringing to market
is the Bitcoin Standard Corporation's ETI.
This is really an exciting product category for us
because much in the way we believe that indexing
is a great way to get diversified exposure to crypto,
we actually think that buying a basket
of crypto-owning public companies
is actually going to be a secular tailwind as well.
These are companies who are embracing ideologically
what the next generation of consumers want.
And the ability to build off of that brand base in itself
could be powerful regardless of whether you become
the next MicroStrategy or not.
And I think you've seen some of that
with these smaller companies like a Rumble
or Heritage Distillery.
And because of this indexing to some approach
of these smaller cap companies
to have more beta to Bitcoin upside capture
than perhaps MicroStrategy can because of its size,
to me, that feels equally compelling
if you're especially a small retail investor
where you're trying to, again, find that altcoin,
that altcoin that's going to give you a 30X run-up
rather than a 10X.
And that's going to be a Rumble
versus a MicroStrategy calculation.
– That's really interesting.
I hadn't thought about it on the short seller front,
but that reminds me of what Overstock did,
not with Bitcoin initially,
but do you remember back in 2015, 2016,
they had some dividend that was payable in a...
– Was it T0?
– It was a token format.
T0 was doing it for them.
And the shorts got out of the way
because they couldn't secure a locate
on the underlying dividend stream.
And I don't know how that ended up turning out.
That seemed a little bit of a shortcut
from a regulatory perspective,
but it's the same concept
if you just put Bitcoin on the balance sheet,
albeit it's very clearly legal.
– Yeah.
Essentially, it could be
an incredible weaponization of your treasury,
but also it can be a defensive armor.
Bitcoin can do both,
which is such a unique property
for any corporate treasurer to consider
to have on their balance sheet.
– So outside of the Bitcoin market,
it'll be interesting to me to see
what type of new innovations get introduced
once you have a market structure bill.
If you think about the ideas
that we've all been pitched
over the last few years,
a lot of them are really interesting technological ideas
that look like they would have to be securities,
at least for some time, to actually work.
They'd have to raise capital.
Some of these things have concepts
of revenue shares built in
that probably would trip how we test
if that's still the framework
that we're going to end up using here.
But I would argue that there's been
a lack of innovation
for regulatory reasons on the fringes here.
And I don't know if that means
that these things end up being
security tokens
or if they end up being commodities
at some point in the future.
But it's clear to me that there are
a lot more ideas than there are companies
that exist right now
building some of these things.
How do you think about that opportunity
set outside of Bitcoin?
– It's a fascinating question
and one where we have literally no precedence
to imagine what classification
these assets deserve.
On one hand, even just removing
from the lens of how we test,
which we're all familiar with,
is that historically commodities,
by also definition,
don't generate dividends.
Gold doesn't generate dividends.
Oil doesn't generate dividends.
Actually, cattle do
because they give birth
and that maybe is a dividend.
So cattle futures maybe have
some dividend implied in it.
But the reality is commodities
don't generate dividends.
And I think that's the most challenging
component of the security classification.
Even moving away from the nature
of an investment contract offering
versus what the underlying asset represents.
Once there's income associated
with these assets,
it really bridges a line
that we just haven't explored.
So I think that is going to be
the big thing that the regulators
will have to really think through,
even away from governance,
even away from the shared purpose
of profit motivation.
How do you deal with a commodity
that distributes,
which is something
that just hasn't happened before?
At the same time,
we know that most of the investment world
really likes distribution.
Actually, the only way to think about
applying any kind of valuation methodology,
unless you're trading macro assets
for the sake of flows,
is trying to value
those streams of cash flow.
So when there's clarity around
this being a permissible activity,
the great unlock and jump function
that's going to happen
is that there's going to be new
classes of investors
who are going to be able to tolerate
these assets
as part of their investment strategy.
So I always share the example of equities
where there's a whole journey of equities.
So it starts with venture,
it starts with maybe a pre-seed,
and eventually it gets to series C,
and maybe it goes to then a crossover fund,
which is actually a hedge fund
that owns private for the IPO window,
and then it IPOs,
and then the stock gets passed to your hedge fund
that's trading liquid,
and then maybe it goes into an active mutual fund,
and then maybe it goes into the ETF one day,
and then maybe it ends up as someone's IRA.
And that's the journey of a stock.
And what you see is every step along the way,
a new investor comes in
because the stock has matured
for the calibration of their risk preference.
And you need the ability to graduate assets
along that risk preference.
The problem with crypto
and all coins in general today
is that there isn't a concept
of graduating along the risk curve.
It feels almost as if
it's all just one contained system
because there's no new investors
coming in with the idea that,
oh yeah, this has now been derisked
because XYZ,
and now I can own it
at this cost of opportunity capital.
I call this the permanent capital vehicle effect.
Part of why the ETFs are really important
and will continue to be
is because ETFs bring that class of investor.
It brings in a new investor
who is actually thinking about crypto
as a permanent capital allocation.
And you're going to then see
these altcoins graduate into having ETF offerings,
hopefully with something sensible
from the perspective of being revenue generating,
that will allow the types of investors
that we have wished upon for years
but now there having been no regulatory clarity
can be possible now
than it hasn't been before.
It's going to be really interesting
to see how that evolves
just from the allocator lens
because on one hand,
you wouldn't want to value these things
based on cash flows if you're the team.
The team would not want that
because there are a lot of these things
that are very richly valued.
They don't have a lot of cash flows.
So what is the TAM
that some of these projects are going after?
Is it non-sovereign store of value?
Is it global internet money
or is it something that looks like
a commodity with cash flows associated to it?
And I think that's still a big open question.
A lot of these categories within crypto
is just what is the token actually competing for?
Just because it is money-like
does not mean that we're going to have
300 different internet monies.
Absolutely.
This is why at the core crypto
really feels like a commodity
more than a security today
because it trades like a commodity.
It trades based on market demand and supply
in ways where the valuation
is mostly driven by the marginal buyers and sellers.
And that's what commodities ultimately represent.
There's no concept of value associated with that
in the way you're describing.
Yeah, I think that is a big component
of how people are going to think about assessing crypto.
It's also why I think at some level
Ethereum has been challenged
and why Solana has been able to escape
a little bit outside of that narrow valuation framework.
Part of Ethereum's journey has always been
that they were going to be valued like a DCF
because of their disinflationary nature
of the way that they were going to bring upon fee burns.
And if you make investors subscribe to that view
and you pound the table
that this is the valuation methodology,
well, you better hold them to it
because think of it that way.
And what you saw actually is that
it was very challenging to imagine
these things are actually underwritable and stable.
So once there were no fees associated with it
in the ways that people expected
after layer two scaling,
the whole thesis broke apart.
So that was almost a disservice actually
from the Ethereum's effort of trying to brand itself
as something that ultimately wasn't going to grow into.
Whereas Solana I think was a lot more clever
because they have the great advantage
of having marketed two things.
One, very, very, very big town.
So they basically will go and say,
we are in everything.
We're in, as you said, D-PIN,
we're in financing different payment streams,
we're in telecoms,
we're in DEXs,
we're basically in everything you can ever imagine.
And that creates a huge TAM.
And then they say we charge very, very, very, very little
for every consumption.
So when you multiply a very, very big number
to a very, very small number,
the humans cannot possibly comprehend those calculations.
There's no calibration possible
on any valuation methodology.
So you get to have the ability
to just walk both advantages of big TAMs
and very little fees,
but not have to narrowly define what that is.
And that's why I think Solana trades still today
more like a macro asset
because it is trading on the belief of what it can be,
not what it is.
Ethereum is the classic stuck in the middle,
not competing for sound money,
or at least big parts of the community aren't competing
for sound money.
And then just an inferior operating system,
I suppose, to some of the new entrants
that have launched after the launch of Ethereum.
And yes, that decentralized operating system category
is just going to be a lot more competitive
than the digital gold category over time.
So you probably see more churn in that set,
but a classic corporate strategy problem
for a non-corporation over at Ethereum these days.
Well, this is why I'm so bullish for Bitwise
and with our on-chain solutions with the testing
because the common mistake I think people also make
with non-Bitcoin crypto assets
is that it's this thing you just buy
and stuff it under your mattress,
and it goes up in value,
kind of like Bitcoin does
because it looks more like gold.
And yes, gold actually is useless.
So you stuff it under your mattress and it's fine.
But most of these technology-centric protocols
are actually meant to be useful.
They're meant to use these things
to bring some productivity gains at large
for which you are rewarded.
So to actually manage those crypto assets,
it is inevitable that the future has to be on-chain.
So what I end up seeing is that
even though ETF price action on the ETH asset
might have gone down,
those who have been able to navigate
earning the opportunities for that cost of capital,
much like our alpha strategies that Bitwise has last year
by participating in the restaking theme
and participating in Eigenlayer
and the Pendle Athena interoperability
to actually do things where you're earning
off of the Ethereum backbone
means their cost basis is actually lower
than the person who did nothing with it.
So if my cost basis of my ETH is lower
than the person who had it under their mattress,
my inclination to sell it
is obviously going to be higher to monetize it
because I've just increased that gap.
So structurally, if you don't use these assets,
you're at a disadvantage,
which is why the future is on-chain
and that's why Bitwise is going in,
offering those on-chain solutions
for most of these assets
for which much of that value accrual
has to exist in that framework as well.
That's awesome.
Well, I think that's a great place to leave it, Jeff.
This has been a lot of fun.
We have to do this more often.
I always love picking your brain.
Where can we send people to learn more about Bitwise?
I can always check out our website,
bitwiseinvestments.com.
We're also prolific on Twitter.
So you can find me, Matt, Hunter, anyone else
and we're always available to chat.
Definitely. You guys are in the must-follow category.
So thanks for everything you're doing for the industry.
Keep it up.
Thank you, Matt. Lovely to see you.
Thanks for listening to another episode
of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To find out more about Castle Island,
visit castleisland.vc.
To listen to all of our podcast episodes,
please go to onthebrink-podcast.com
or just click on the tab in our website.
Thanks for listening.
