TITLE: Bitcoin DeFi Yield Opportunities with Luke Schia (SatLayer) [Castle Island Insights]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_SatLayer_-_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
Today on the podcast, I sat down with Luke Schia, the founder of SatLayer.
SatLayer is an economic layer for Bitcoin and DeFi, which allows holders to earn yield.
Users deposit their Bitcoin and SatLayer routes deposits to best-in-class DeFi yield offerings.
Luke and I discussed Bitcoin's rise as a financialized versus idle asset and what lies ahead for
Bitcoin.
Without further ado, here's my conversation with Luke.
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets discussed in this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression
of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by bad mortgage investments, Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be
liquidated.
The federal government loans American International Group, AIG, $85 billion.
This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage
giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin.
Bitcoin.
Luke, thanks for joining us today.
We're going to talk about Bitcoin, which will be fun.
I wanted to kick off to say that one meaningful trend is that you look at DeFi and the crypto
industry, the TVL of Bitcoin referring to the amount of BTC that's being used in DeFi
protocols outside of the Bitcoin main chain is markedly increasing.
The last I checked, DeFi Llama cites something along the lines of $6 billion.
Babylon has led the pack in that.
You guys and a host of other protocols or a smallish number of other protocols have followed,
but still a meaningful development on that front.
When it comes to bringing BTC into existing DeFi capital markets, it seems to me that
this will continue to progress, but I love your perspective on how you see this continuing
to move going forward.
Absolutely.
I think in many ways, analogy here is probably like DeFi summer for a broader OG slash e-face
DeFi.
And I think in many ways we're still in the first inning, just because I think in many
ways for Bitcoin DeFi, a lot of the teams came from the EVM and layer one side of the
ecosystem and took a lot of the learnings plus I think just the latest in terms of innovation
and to build that in various ways on and around Bitcoin.
And it goes without saying the strength of Bitcoin this cycle and the biggest factor
I think driving this bull market.
So in many ways it plays out similarly to if you zoom out and look at the chart for
DeFi summer where I think it ultimately topped out around 300 billion and that's on a much
smaller overall market cap.
And that's mostly on Ethereum, which is just at this point a fraction of Bitcoin's value
and overall market cap as well.
Because I think in many ways there's a lot of other tailwinds for this with the rise
of MicroStrategy and these Bitcoin treasury companies.
Now we're getting to the point of at least in certain markets near saturation of these
treasury companies and so they're going to have to start differentiating in other ways.
We certainly see on-chain yield as a big differentiator because at the end of the day, the reason
people invest in these companies is to accumulate more Bitcoin.
So part of it is how good are you in terms of trade execution on the community Bitcoin
that way from the capital you're able to raise in public equity markets.
But I think the other portion is, okay, now you have all these Bitcoin that you've accumulated,
how do you generate additional yield and growth from that?
And part of it is also, especially on the Western institution side, we see a lot of
wait and see of wanting for the protocol to be operating for at least six months, if not
longer with no major issues and then folks will start scaling into this at size.
Because I think certainly, as you mentioned, it's around six or seven billion just depending
on Bitcoin price in terms of Bitcoin that is active in Bitcoin DeFi and a lot of that
is staked into Babylon, restaked into sat layer.
But if you just look at the growth of the RAP Bitcoin assets, the BTC, BCB, BTC, FBTC
and WBTC, those are sitting around 30-ish billion and I forget the exact number, but
I think a year ago, it was one third to half of this.
So I think overall, Bitcoin on-chain and being active and productive has definitely grown,
I think, exponentially and I think there's a long way to go from here.
To your point, those numbers we talked about, whether it's six billion TVL, 30 billion across
different Bitcoin variants, that's a drop in the bucket when you think about whether
it's 300 billion and increasing in DeFi capital or the total market cap of Bitcoin.
I'm curious for your view, do you think the innovation here is to have a lot of the same
sorts of use cases you've had since early DeFi, which is on-chain lending markets, trading
with Bitcoin as a more center asset?
Or do you think it's more novel primitives for Bitcoin and DeFi?
I think it's a mix of both.
We're certainly taking this approach along with some of our closest partners, Solvang
Lombard of, I think, building the infrastructure and the rails, so to speak, for Bitcoin to
participate in existing, whether it's ETH DeFi, SWE DeFi and let's say you in terms
of BVM and Alt-layer-1 DeFi, because I think this was a hot take when I first started
talking about it, maybe it might have been like six months ago or so, but I feel like
now it's almost becoming more consensus is that ETH DeFi was really testnet for Bitcoin
DeFi.
And I just see a future where Bitcoin becomes the biggest asset in BVM DeFi and Alt-layer-1.
How do you look at the relationship between Bitcoin and ETH and DeFi?
Are they advantaging each other or at odds?
How do you look at it?
I think it depends on the time horizon.
Certainly this cycle, a lot of folks probably regret keeping their ETH and then deploying
that into DeFi.
Whereas if you had Bitcoin DeFi, you would just be very comfortable and very happy.
Where I think ironically, ETH holders, one of the few asset holders that came out ahead
for the FTX bankruptcy because they had locked in 22 prices, but ETH was actually a 4K and
higher versus for Bitcoin because they locked in 22 prices, you're like way down.
I think certainly at the same time want to give credit where credit is due in terms of
ETH and ETH DeFi builders that really laid the foundation for all of this.
But at the end of the day, at least certainly right now, there's only one asset within all
of crypto that nation states are accumulating, that institutions are almost become somewhat
consensus among institutions to accumulate, which is Bitcoin, not ETH, not Solana, certainly
not the long tail of crypto.
Yeah, makes sense.
And then I think the other piece to add is, I do think there's going to be some innovation
in terms of how Bitcoin is used in these DeFi slash financial use cases, and that's in part
because from what we've seen and the conversations we've had with our users, Bitcoin holders
are a bit different than ETH or Solana holders in that they're okay with much lower yield
as long as there's much less principal risk.
And so that's one of the reasons that I think one of the big use cases that we've been spent
a lot of resources and time developing with some of the price partners in this space like
Nexus Mutual and a few others that we'll announce soon is insurance that's backed by Bitcoin
and also for Bitcoin LPs.
So we can get into details later, but the idea here is really almost like structuring
a product so that you have principal protected Bitcoin yield.
And this again comes from our conversations with some of the largest Bitcoin holders and
miners in the space where generally they are okay with low single digit yield as long
as there is principal protection.
It's very interesting to me.
I like the point on yield because if you look at the US dollar and you try and peg something
of a risk-free rate, you're probably in the four to 5% range.
And every crypto asset, your yield expectation of a base yield would be higher, I think would
be probably something in the 7% plus range.
For Bitcoin, to my understanding, it seems lower.
Most people who own Bitcoin are looking for Bitcoin yield, I'd say their risk-free rate
is lower than that of 4% or 5% potentially, which I think speaks to how unique the asset
is and the potential affiliation with something like gold.
Totally, because I think relative to most other crypto assets and then I think arguably
even the dollar Bitcoin is lower risk and a better store of value without again going
into this rabbit hole.
I think we are seeing continued inflation of the dollar and this continued kicking down
the road of the US debt issue, which is I think also made a lot of other central banks
around the world and other countries start rethinking how much US debt they hold and
their alignment and reliance on the dollar.
And I think a lot of our team have viewed that Bitcoin is on the path to becoming a
global reserve asset.
Now we're not saying it's going to be the global reserve asset, but we are saying it
is going to be a global reserve asset, just given, as I mentioned, the US debt issues
and just overall global macro and geopolitics are going.
So overall, what we're trying to do at SatLayer is really to help usher in that future and
then also to effectively be the economic layer to unlock initially a more financial-focused
use cases for Bitcoin and both plugging into existing DeFi and then on the yield and liquidity
side, as well as on the security side with some of the use cases working with partners
like Plume and Layer Zero.
We had the same thought.
I was going to say that was a good segue to talk about SatLayer.
To put a bit more of a fine point on it, maybe you guys are aggregating Bitcoin capital when
you're finding yield opportunities for it in the market.
I'd love for you to speak to how you do that and where you see yield being generated by
Bitcoin, because early on, I think there's a lot of demand for people, for example, to
borrow US dollars against their Bitcoin.
But I'd love to hear your views on will there be appetite to borrow Bitcoin?
What will be the yield generation sources for Bitcoin?
I think for us, we certainly sit at a bit of a unique position in the entire ecosystem,
where from a user flow-wise, we are downstream from whether it's your wrapped Bitcoin or
your Bitcoin liquid-stake token, and then we are intentionally not a chain, so we're
able to actually deploy our contracts on a lot of the strongest L1s, essentially L2s
as well, in the ecosystem like SWE, like Bearachain, like BNB.
So in terms of where we sit, we basically enable users to almost create this at least
three, four stack of yield.
So you get your yield from your Bitcoin LST, for example, that stakes similar to Lido does.
These Bitcoin LSTs like Solver Lombard will stake your Bitcoin into Babylon for you,
but giving you a liquid-stake token that then you can then deposit into the sat layer.
And then right now, there's a lot of L1s that are incentivizing Bitcoin on their chain to
also drive, I think, their DeFi ecosystem like SWE, like Bearachain, and a lot of the
up-and-coming ones as well.
So that's your third set of yield.
And then we have our own SatSquared rewards program.
That's the fourth set of yield.
And then we intentionally also mint the receipt token.
So for the more DeFi natives or DeFi degens, you can then take it onto lending, borrowing,
or Dexel key if you want.
But that's totally optional for the user since there sometimes is risk associated with that.
And then I think in addition, for us, it's really on the user side and very much the
beginning where a lot of the big use cases that we're focused on, some of which we touched on
earlier, are insurance backed by Bitcoin, as well as stablecoins backed or secured by Bitcoin.
So CapLabs is one of our partners who's integrating with us as well as Iconium Symbiotic
in a very restating native way, where in their architecture, the operators are actually the
ones that are generating yield for the stablecoin.
So it's a lot of the market makers in the space as well as trap by players like the
IMC traders of the world.
And then we're also working closely with Plume on their Nest credit side of things.
We're providing Clidity Float as well as on the core RWA business where for their RWA
transfer layer called Skylink, that we will be providing Bitcoin security for that.
Just give it effectively the overly simplistic version to think about it.
Is it like an RWA focused bridge that's built as a layer zero DVN?
And that's where we'll provide Bitcoin based security.
Just given that in general for bridging, that is the most important thing is how secure
your bridge is.
Especially for Bitcoin.
For RWA as well, because I think it's a lot of times there's assets tied to token representations
of real world assets.
That also again, like security is very important versus like a gaming asset, for example,
where maybe more cost is much more important than speed.
And then I think the final use case is really around almost liquidity float repo or prime
brokerage that's on chain and backed by Bitcoin.
So here we actually just announced this yesterday.
We're working with Aether in terms of on the AI infrastructure side to help some of these AI
infrastructure providers access a lot more and deeper liquidity that's Bitcoin backed.
As right now we're seeing the boom in AI infrastructure.
I love that LSTs or for anyone listening, crypto tokens that naturally give you the
yield of the underlying chain as if you staked your Ethereum.
I love that that's a canonical part of crypto now.
And I think that you guys said an interesting point because essentially you're saying,
okay, now we need to rebuild market access in the way that capital flows for these LST
tokens, especially in the case of Bitcoin, where it's completely novel.
And I remember when Aetherfied did a similar thing in the Ethereum context.
And in my opinion, it makes for better markets if the default asset becomes the one where
you're automatically getting that risk-free rate as opposed to just the standard Bitcoin
or ETH.
100%.
Yeah, I think Aetherfied is a great example where they're almost becoming a bit of a
neo-bank and then just giving users easy access to yield.
In their case, primarily focused around ETH, but also being able to with their credit card
product like spend it.
Because I think in many ways, people by human nature are greedy.
And when you have such a great asset like Bitcoin, of course, you would want to love
to have yield on Bitcoin, get more of it.
So that's where I think it's also the benchmark rate for Bitcoin is going up historically,
especially before I think the emergence of Bitcoin DeFi was really around sub 1%,
half a percent range with these delta neutral strategies.
But I think as anyone in crypto knows, especially when folks that have played with options,
delta neutral, it's kind of in some ways like picking up pennies in front of a steamroller.
It's great until you're unable to roll your option, then you're stuck getting exercise,
and now you're down 10% on principal instead of up a couple percent on yield.
Whereas clearly, to be fair, on-chain yield, it's not zero risk either.
But I think there's contract risk or front-end attacks, etc.
But I think in general, a lot of the teams definitely have security top of mind,
including ours, and have gotten multiple audits from a lot of the leading firms,
plus just internal good practices and internal audits to just minimize that risk.
But that is another reason why we put a lot of resources on developing
these insurance slash covered products that's backed by Bitcoin for Bitcoin.
It's just giving users, I think, another layer of assurance and security on their Bitcoin assets.
I wanted to ask your perspective. We have dollars in DeFi, which makes for a perfect comp in that
there's a borrow rate on Aave and there's a borrow rate with JP Morgan.
And you can compare the two and you can go decide to do business with either one.
With Bitcoin today, obviously, yield and markets around Bitcoin and traditional finance are very
nascent. It's very much a treasury asset right now, to your point. And we have evolving ways
of earning yield on your Bitcoin in DeFi. Eventually, my hope would be that Bitcoin
is just used more often in finance. And with that, you'll be able to lend and borrow Bitcoin
more effectively because people will accept it when it comes to want to pay for things.
So it'll just be a holding asset. You can spend with it more effectively.
Does that become competitive with DeFi yield, in your opinion, for Bitcoin? And is that a
nexus of competition if traditional firms start to not just hold Bitcoin, but start to do financial
operations and enter financial markets with the asset? I don't think so. Because I think in many
ways what we're seeing, maybe stablecoins is probably the best example and the most top of
line for folks is that now you're seeing, whether it's Web2Fintechs or even the traditional banks,
embracing stablecoin or launching their own stablecoins. Because overall, the way I think
about it is just fundamentally crypto, whether it's stablecoins or Bitcoin or either whatever,
is just a better form from a product perspective of money.
It's a better form of money. I get what you mean.
Especially stablecoins is straight up a better form of money in almost every dimension versus
paper fiat money. You don't have the printing costs and then there's a maintenance cost to
having paper currency, which is not insignificant. For a lot of major countries, it's in the, I think,
tens or hundreds of millions a year. You have the fraud of, I can just print money that looks
almost as good as the actual thing and a lot of places can't tell. And then you have V1 digital
money of the demos, PayPal, WeChat and Alipay. But those are centralized. And certainly for a
good number of folks in crypto that have been suspended or debanked from some of these platforms,
there's centralization challenges and risks. And if you get blocked, it's horrible because
there is sometimes no recourse or it takes months to unlock your account. And in the meanwhile,
you have funds stuck there. Whereas I think for stablecoins, by nature, you can't really have
counterfeit fraud because you can see very clearly that this is the USTC or the USDT.
This is the contract. There's billions or even trillions of assets in this contract. And so this
is obviously the real one and not a fake one. And then you can't counterfeit and print more of it.
You also don't have the centralization risk of, oh yeah, I got blocked by Vemo or PayPal.
And then it's also by nature, all the transactions are on chain. And then you can't have the, oh,
I sent an international wire, but then somewhere along the way, I got stuck and nobody knows where
it is. You can see exactly where it is. You know right away if it's sent out or not.
So I think by nature, it's just a better product. And I think for TrapFi, they've come to understand
it now. And especially just given how long a lot of these things have been around, it is battle
tested. And so now they're ready to launch their own version of it or collaborate and enter at scale.
And so I think on the Bitcoin side of things, I would expect you would see something similar,
but I think there's a bit more of an edge on the more crypto native side because there is no
TrapFi direct analogy for a Bitcoin. And people aren't going to build Gold DeFi. So I think on
the Bitcoin side, the innovation comes more from the Bitcoin native and crypto native side. And
then it's the traditional players just onboarding. The thing I think is beautiful about Bitcoin,
to your point is it's one asset. Whereas with cash, we have physical cash, we have digital
money in a bank, we have stable coins, and we call them the same thing and functionally they
are in our economy. But those are three different iterations of an asset that you're calling a
dollar. Whereas with Bitcoin, you really only have the Bitcoin on the ledger that is traceable. You
know exactly where it is. There is no Bitcoin form of cash. Things like that have been tried,
but it's not the default asset. And I think with that in mind, it validates what's happening in
DeFi if people in traditional finance are using that same asset. Whereas with some of the cash
or stable coins, you still have hard cash and you have digital money and you have stable coins.
So it's a slightly different iteration, which creates friction. And my hope is that that will
be a strengthening factor for Bitcoin across all markets eventually. 100%. And also Bitcoin is such
a unique asset where it's fixed supply, countries can't print it at will. And I think it's become
globally recognized. So not only are you having the really small from a relative size perspective
countries like Bhutan or like El Salvador adopting Bitcoin, but you're seeing some of the Middle
East players like Muvadala accumulate Bitcoin and then be very public about the fact that they
have committed Bitcoin. And US of course, adopting a strategic Bitcoin reserve. But I think it's been
fascinating on the US side to see as of now, I think at least three states that have front
brand the US government in passing laws to adopt and set up their own strategic Bitcoin reserve,
as well as I think many countries in the world that are more discreetly accumulating Bitcoin.
Minimum as a hedge. Because I think the narrative has very much shifted on central banks of,
well, what if the US actually accumulates Bitcoin in size? Then it's too late for us.
So we should probably get a little bit just in case. And then I think even in traditional
finance circles of Ray Dalio, where it's like Fintech Frank put it really well on Twitter,
he traced the journey of Ray Dalio. First he was like Bitcoin is garbage, is a scam. And then
Bridgewater starts buying some Bitcoin and play around with it. And now he's recommending everyone
allocate 15% of their portfolio to Bitcoin. So in many ways, going through the typical journey
we've all had in crypto. I was listening to a podcast he was on recently with Chris Williamson,
who does Modern Wisdom. And he was talking about his view on global power politics and five powers.
And I was like, how does this guy not believe in Bitcoin? Or how could he if not? And he must
be on one side of the fence because it definitely fits into his overall narrative one way or another.
Yeah, 100%.
I did want to ask you, as we look at Bitcoin broadly, I think a lot of Bitcoin holders
come at it from an original angle of either something of a libertarian streak and maybe
extend that to even a diet form of libertarianism that's in a lot of people. Or alternatively,
crypto investing curious and they wouldn't buy other crypto assets, they wouldn't buy other stocks,
but they'll buy a little bit of Bitcoin. I imagine there might be a lower risk tolerance of folks
like that when it comes to even working with an application that wants to go and earn the meal on
their Bitcoin because of maybe the initial skepticism of financial markets and institutions
generally, or maybe a preference for simplistic investing. The point I mentioned, it's someone
who might not invest in other crypto assets or stocks. Do you find that to be something that
is a friction when it comes to encouraging people to earn yield on their Bitcoin?
Is that evolving? How do you look at it?
I think it's evolved a lot. And I think in many ways in Asia,
folks look at it a bit differently. Part of it is when the Asian institutions and the
Asian world and OGs in many ways are a lot more pragmatic and less idealistic about Bitcoin,
crypto, really anything. Because in some ways, the big difference maybe between Asia and the West is
religion in many countries is not really necessarily the majority and people take a lot more of the
practical view to things. And so certainly what we've seen even a year ago is that the biggest
miners, institutions, OGs in Asia have been actively deploying a portion of their Bitcoin
holdings into Bitcoin DeFi. And in many ways, they're really just almost embracing portfolio
theory. And for them, it's their on-chain DeFi allocation that they're deploying into Bitcoin
DeFi. Whereas in some ways, ironically, what we've seen with a lot of Western institutions is they'll
just take a wait and see approach and not even play around and experiment and wait six months
and 12 months and then start sizing in. Having said that, I think it has been over a year
since we started on this journey and then even longer for projects like Babylon that we work
very closely with. So I think now you are seeing some of the Western institutions coming in.
And it also, in many ways, I think a lot of the Asian institutions really paved the way and showed
them, hey, I've been deploying my Bitcoin on-chain for a year plus 18 months and really haven't had
issues. I like the behavioral point from my experience, at least. I still have family back
in Iran because that's where my dad grew up. And that's an extreme, but the economic stability
there is relatively low. So there's not what I would call an economic centering, which
we have in the US. You don't really have a proxy. So therefore, people are more exploratory and open
to new ideas. Whereas in the US, you're always saying, oh, I have treasury bills, I have the US
dollar, I have my local bank. And there's a comfort in that that discourages going elsewhere.
And I don't know if that's an impact on the Eastern culture, Asian culture, like you said as well,
but I imagine especially outside of China probably is to some degree just because the US is the very
obvious, we feel incredibly centered in our economic system because it's the predominant one.
Yeah, I think it's very much the case. And it's a mix of, I think, distrust in government,
in centralized institutions or less mature financial proxies. China is a great example
where credit cards are not a big thing in China. Credit card is the standard in the US. If you
don't have credit, what are you even doing? And you got a credit score. Whereas in China, in many
ways, it was almost like one of the leapfrogs is they just skip credit cards, they went straight
to WeChat Pay and Alipay. And now you can get some credit products from WeChat and Alipay.
Mentally, it's much more of a less, I think, debt-focused culture where folks are just used
like saving up and then paying primarily cash for a whole. You're paying cash for a card,
not really financing. And that's not even extreme. As you mentioned, like Iran or like Turkey is a
great example where Turkey is a massive Bitcoin market and crypto market because of their own
current instability, same story like El Salvador. And then you have, for example,
in Korea and Japan, where oftentimes the outgoing president or the outgoing ruling party officials
just get thrown in jail right afterwards. There is no trust in centralized institutions. And I
think that's why these markets are some of the biggest in crypto is that for them, it's like,
well, either use the existing infrastructure, which is really just not transparent in some
way stacked against me, or I use these crypto products where it's at least everything on chain,
traceable if I do want to. It is shocking. The US is behind when it comes to instant payments
compared to things like PICS and M-Pesa that you have in countries around the world that you would
argue we should be at least on parity with from an instant payments perspective. 100%. And like Fed
now, who knows when it'll finally launch. Yeah, agreed. Very interesting stuff. I'd love to hear
maybe in closing, what should people be excited about in the near term when it comes to how
Bitcoin financial markets will evolve? What will we see?
On the near term, one of the most interesting areas, as is the case with Stablecoin, is I think
the convergence of crypto native products and offerings, and then almost like TradFi and Fintech
offerings. I think, again, you're seeing this probably initially outside of the US. You have
some of the biggest players in Latin America, as well as Europe, and then I think certainly Asia
as well, launching some of these products. And at the same time, I think you have innovative players
in the US, like Meanwhile, which is doing life insurance. It's actually backed by Bitcoin. So
very much, I think, on the same wavelength that's our thesis here. And I think it'll be super
interesting, especially with, I think, the much more friendly regulations and also regulatory
clarity that you now have in the US. That's, I think, now going to pave the road for the rest
of the world. Because I think in many ways, a lot of regulators around the world still look to the
US SEC and TTC when setting their own regulations. So I think it's going to be really interesting to
see the Cambrian explosion of innovation that I think we've all been building the foundation for
and waiting for the floodgates to open. I think the other super interesting piece is on the Stablecoin
front. I'm particularly interested in the response of the other global currencies now that the US is
pushing USD-based Stablecoins, really bracing Stablecoins. Because I think for the other
major currencies, if you do nothing, then USD dominance grows and it eats your currency's
lunch. So you're seeing this certainly in Korea, which we've been following closely, Korean
regulators also embrace Stablecoins. And a lot of the major Korean conglomerates are launching
Stablecoin initiatives. Because I think in some ways, it's almost a topic of national security
for them in terms of ensuring the future of the Korean Wall. Because Stablecoins, by nature,
they are fractional. So it's almost like for any currency that's effectively piped into the US,
if there's global adoption of Stablecoins, why do you still need your currency? Do the math and
just use a USD-based Stablecoin instead. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. We'll have to circle back
in a year or two and see how things have landed. Yeah, I think it'll be fun to look at what played
out and what didn't. Thanks again, Luke. Really enjoyed it. Awesome. Thanks for having me. It was
a lot of fun. Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To find out more about Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc. To listen to all of our podcast
episodes, please go to onthebrink-podcast.com or just click on the tab in our website. Thanks for
listening.
