TITLE: Stablecoins and Currency Trading in DeFi (Marcus Frank & Denny Kwok) [On The Brink]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Markus_and_Denney_-_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
On today's episode of On The Brink, I sat down with Marcus Frank and Denny Kwok from
Mento Labs for our latest conversation focused on stablecoins in DeFi.
Mento is a platform for currency trading powered by stablecoins.
I hope you enjoy our conversation.
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets discussed in this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression
of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by bad mortgage investments, Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be
liquidated.
The federal government loans American International Group AIG 85 billion dollars.
This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage
giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
Bank of England has pumped £75 billion more into Britain's ailing economy with a new round
of quantitative easing.
You print a couple of trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin, Bitcoin.
Marcus and Denny from Mento Labs, thank you for coming on the podcast.
Thank you for having us.
Really excited to be here.
Looking forward to the conversation.
Yeah, I'm very excited to be here.
You guys are doing a lot of interesting work in the crypto and stablecoin space.
If you don't mind, we'd love to get a quick background to kick things off.
Absolutely.
I can get started with that.
My name is Marcus.
I'm a founder and CEO of Mento Labs and I'm coming from an economics background, studied
economics, worked on a PhD in economics, worked on portfolio theory during that PhD and also
some monetary economics and then worked in Treadfy for a longer time for JP Morgan.
Merrill Lynch was a portfolio manager in the Allianz Asset Management Group, was even managing
a part of a pension fund from Bank for International Settlements.
And then seven years ago came into the Web3 space, was part of the early Sellor team working
on Sellor, now an L2 platform on Ethereum.
And they are always, as an economist, focused on stablecoins and how a stablecoin platform
should look like.
And then around two years ago, we've spun off Mento as a separate company, as a standalone
project.
Amazing.
I'm Denny.
I also came from a Treadfy background to start my career and did some management consulting
for asset managers.
More recently, did product at Google for about four years and made my way into Web3, led
product for the Circle USDC team, building out growth there, and then recently joined
Mento about six months ago as a chief product officer.
I'm excited to be here.
So to be clear, Mento started as a project within Sellor?
Yes.
Mento was the initial stablecoin team inside Sealabs company that is working on Sellor.
And we've built the early stablecoins that were live first on Sellor, the Sellor dollar,
which launched just after Mainnet launched.
We also built the Sellor Euro.
And then at some point, we thought two things need to happen.
One thing is we need to bring other stablecoins also onto Sellor.
We need to have USDT there, USDC and others.
And Mento as a project at some point should also be independent to be able to go live
on other platforms as well.
So in the beginning, we started off as the core stablecoin team.
And after the spin-off, we focused on other things.
Our first focus actually was to launch more currencies for different use cases and for
different reasons.
We always wanted to have a broad range of currencies.
And Mento today actually offers 15 different currencies, all the G7 currencies, and then
also more long-tail or emerging market currencies like, for example, a Philippine peso, a Kenyan
shilling or a Colombian peso from different regions of the world.
And initially, we always had this mission of having a stablecoin for every country in
the world.
I still think this is important that everyone in every country in the world has the choice
what stablecoins they want to use.
But currently, our focus also is much more on the FX side of things.
Having so many different currencies actually enables all sorts of FX trades.
And FX is a super important market.
It's, in fact, the largest market in the world with $7.5 trillion in daily trading volume.
I think we will talk a bit later a bit more about FX.
But with Mento in the end, with having so many currencies live, we now have a proper
FX platform that enables all sorts of currency swaps.
And this is currently our big focus.
And to that point, Mento today is a platform where users can swap among those currencies
that you mentioned to confirm.
Yes, exactly.
So all of these 15 currencies, you can go, for example, on app.mento.org or other places
where Mento is integrated and swap between different currencies.
You can go from a euro to a pound, from a pound to a Kenyan shilling, all in a second
or two until that trade settles compared to traditional FX settlement times that are typically
T plus 2.
We also already integrated other stablecoins in that.
So we also integrated, for example, USDT and USDC.
So you can easily also swap from USDT into a Kenyan shilling or into a Philippine peso.
And what made you excited about building out this longer tail of currency stablecoins early
on versus allowing stablecoins to proliferate just as US dollars?
So having a US dollar on chain has many, many advantages.
And especially for people in markets where there is high inflation or in markets where
their local currency loses value against the dollar, having easy access on chain to dollar
stablecoins is already a great use case by itself because this allows people to access
a stable currency they can save in a stable currency.
There are other use cases for stablecoins as well.
We, for example, talked a lot in the past about credit use cases when people, for example,
want to get a loan.
If they, for example, have a small or medium business in Kenya, maybe they don't have access
to a bank and they want to get a loan to expand the range of product they can sell, then they
have a preference for a loan in local currency because otherwise, if they would only be able
to get a loan or to get credit in a dollar stablecoin, they would bear the FX risk because
their revenues are in local currencies.
And when their revenues are in local currencies, this is the currency then they have to pay
back that loan.
And if the local currency would lose value against the dollar, paying back that loan
in dollars could become expensive.
So microlending is a great use case for local currencies.
We've partnered with partners in Kenya, in Ghana, and many other countries around the
world that now start to do microlending or credit business in general using local currency
stablecoins.
This is also how Mento is used today already a lot.
Last year, we had more than 550 million transactions on the Mento platform.
And we've seen that these use cases around microlending in Kenya or in Ghana grew significantly.
We are also seeing remittances.
And if you're, for example, in the Philippines and you want to send either money home or
money from home to somewhere else, you could use a Philippine peso stablecoin or you could
use a dollar stablecoin so you have that choice.
And then again, the recipient of this remittances payment of that transfer again has the choice
if they want to keep local currency, if they want to off ramp or if they want to swap into
other currencies.
Today in annualized numbers, we see around 20 billion in trading volume on Mento.
And a part of this comes from these, I would say, traditional stablecoin use cases.
But we now also see tremendous growth on chain effects in basically transactions where users
want to go, for example, from a dollar to euro or from a euro to some other currency.
And in the end, want to use stablecoins for that.
And I think Marcus, to add to that, as we see more and more adoption from stablecoins
by enterprises and businesses beyond just user remittances, we're seeing a lot of cross
border payments use cases where these emerging markets or non-dollar stablecoins really provide
added value and increased value in the flow for a lot of these platforms and enterprises
and businesses.
For example, today, a lot of the cross border payments used by stablecoins are done in dollar
stablecoins.
But we really believe that if you introduce non-dollar stablecoins, you can really, really
optimize the flow, especially in these less efficient corridors where there's not as good
fiat rails, there's not as good spreads.
And when you go from fiat to dollar stablecoin back to fiat in two different currencies,
you introduce a pretty wide spread and that creates a lot more efficiency.
So we believe that's a real big killer use case in the coming year.
And with regard to that volume that you guys were highlighting, is that through standard
crypto wallets mostly?
Is it your standard crypto user or what does the activity look like in terms of who the
user is and how they're interacting with Mento?
So I mentioned we have now 15 currencies live and we see that in all these G7 currencies,
the use cases are more around trading.
Some of these currencies also in the real world are more trading forward currencies.
So for example, I think 40% of all the FX desks sit in the UK.
The British pound is used in a lot of FX trading transactions.
Also, for example, the Japanese yen is used as a counterpart for many Southeast Asian
countries for trading use cases.
And then we see a lot of transactions also across Africa where users, for example, want
to have access to a dollar and to do transactions between a dollar and the euro or between local
currency stablecoin and the dollar.
So we actually see a bit of a divide here between more emerging markets, use cases that
are around payments, micro lending, remittances, and then global use cases that are more around
trading.
And you would classify that trading behavior as speculative, to be clear?
I would say, yes, a part of that is FX speculation.
I mean, Web3, when you want to bootstrap for liquidity and volume for a product, it often
starts with speculative trading.
This is how many markets in Web3 emerged.
And for us also, it's very important because in the end, this is how we can grow.
In the end, a lot of the users that we have, initial users for new products and new platforms,
are then traders in Web3 world that want to try out a product and they are very important
for us.
We think a bit into the game, we actually can have also for traditional traders a lot
of advantages that we can show them why they should enter Web2.
In the FX market today, there are no direct liquid pairs between certain currencies.
You always have to go into transactions.
If you, for example, want to go from a Kenyan shilling to a Ghanaian sedi, you often have
to first go from a Kenyan shilling to a dollar and then from a dollar to a Ghanaian sedi.
If every transaction in the real FX world or in the traditional FX world takes T plus
to settlement, then it takes four to six days depending if there's a weekend in the middle
until your final transaction settles and until you are in your target currency.
Now we can offer these markets on chain.
We know that Web3 traders will try it out first.
We know that speculation, FX speculation will be the first use case for that.
But we think we can actually offer these markets to many other audiences as well.
And they are really, really interesting for many other audiences.
I mentioned the size of the FX market in the beginning.
It's like $7.5 trillion a day of trading volume.
So this is a huge market and 30% of that trading volume is spot market, 50% are FX swaps, 15%
are FX forwards.
We can enable all of these use cases on chain as well in a much more efficient manner.
Of course, large part of this market goes via the dollar.
And the reason here is what I mentioned before is because there are no direct pairs in these
more exotic currencies.
But even without the dollar in the FX market, the, for example, euro to British pound market
alone is 150 billion a day.
So if you can just get a fraction of that on chain, this is tremendous.
And I think it's also a market where Web3 can play out its strengths, that you have
common infrastructure that works globally, you have instant settlements, you have a lot
of transparency, and in the end, players globally can use that infrastructure.
So I think this is a perfect use case for Web3.
Yeah, Markus, I think you made a really good point, especially on the routes and corridors
that aren't typically served directly on traditional FX markets.
Web3 rails can really break down these barriers to existing institutions.
And we may see behavior and routes and trades that we don't typically see.
And it might actually unlock a new portion of volume or settlement or trading or whatever
you call it.
Do you have an example of that that you've seen or can think of?
I think we're just seeing emerging parts of this behavior coming out.
But a lot of the volume goes through these G7 currencies today.
We may actually see more and more volume as this on-chain FX market picks up in more
interesting corridors that we haven't seen in traditional FX markets.
For example, maybe something like Brazil to India, the Brazilian Real to Indian Rupee,
we might see tons of volume pick up there.
We know a lot of trade happens through this corridor, but a lot of it goes through the
dollar market, for instance.
So we may see just shifting numbers, shifting dynamics.
I think that could be really cool as more and more adoption comes on-chain.
Markus, you highlighted liquidity, new corridors and settlement as being the two primary advantages.
So we'd love for either one of you guys to weigh in.
Do you see those as the two primary advantages here or are there any other improvements you
think on-chain FX makes to traditional FX that are worth noting?
So I would mention also, in addition to these scaling pairs, I think what we've seen in
Web3 is that this industry is really, really good in offering new types of markets.
You can use the same infrastructure for different types of markets.
We could offer FX swaps on-chain.
We could offer RFQ type of markets on-chain.
We could offer more exotic pairs on-chain because in the end, it's always just a click
of a button to add a new trading pair, basically.
And therefore, I think we can expand the range of markets that users can use.
I think also that this technology works 24-7 is a huge advantage.
Traditional FX markets don't work 24-7, which is crazy for a market that size that users
over the weekend just don't have any opportunity to hedge their FX exposure or to actually
even see the value of their Ghanaan sedis in Euros or in any other currency over the weekend.
I think that is something where this technology can offer a lot of advantages.
And then it's also, I think, really, really interesting to see that there is not a lot
of FX infrastructure actually already live in Web3.
There are many different platforms, many different chains out there that have a few
different currencies live as stablecoins.
I think Mento now has probably the broadest range of stablecoins live,
but proper FX infrastructure is actually missing in all of the networks out there.
And I think this is where we as Mento also can make a difference.
We can offer better markets across all of these currencies because the traditional way
in Web3 or on blockchains, how markets are structured, are probably also not optimized
for FX.
There are AMMs as a very typical type of market on a blockchain and an AMM is using a certain
pricing function.
And this pricing function depends on basically two buckets of the two assets that are traded
in this AMM.
And therefore, this AMM is not optimized to mirror an off-chain price.
I mentioned the amount of volume that daily flows through the, for example, Euro-dollar market.
So currently, at least, this price between the Euro and the dollar is determined off-chain.
So what we need on-chain is actually proper infrastructure that is able to, in very high
frequencies, mimic that price of the off-chain world.
And here, an AMM is not the proper infrastructure.
What we have with Mento is what we call FPMMs, fixed price market makers.
In the end, pools that allow users to swap at the exchange rate.
And this is what we now have on Selo and want to bring to other networks as well.
So we want to bring this, in the end, to all major networks out there or major blockchains
out there that have an interest in being able to offer proper FX markets.
It's a great point you make.
And you have me thinking now about the strategies you can enable with on-chain currencies.
I think about a lot of the vaults that we've seen in crypto and that you could have vault
strategies where you own a mix of underlying currencies.
And maybe through micro lending, they go and each earn their own yields.
And you can have this joint exposure across currencies rather than being tied to one,
which I'd say is somewhat attractive if you're in the US.
Possibly even more attractive if you're elsewhere.
How important is it being able to swap among USD stables?
You mentioned that as a use case and that you look to add USDC, USDT
alongside the USD stablecoin that you already had.
I think that's also an important use case because all of these stablecoins,
even the USD stablecoins, offer different features, even with the large ones out there.
Maybe some stablecoins have better on and off ramping in certain areas of the world.
Maybe some of them are more optimized for saving and some of them are more optimized for payments.
Maybe some of them are more optimized for trading on-chain with other FX currencies.
In the end, this is the beauty of these markets.
You can offer a user's choice in both what currency they want to use in terms of,
do I want to use a euro or a yen or a dollar?
And what dollar stablecoins do they want to use for certain use cases?
Making also swapping very easy between a dollar and a dollar stablecoin is,
I think, also a part of the Mento platform.
To make a very concrete example, if users today, for example, go to Minipay,
a wallet that Opera launched, they can actually easily drag and drop
one dollar pocket onto the other dollar pocket.
And this swap in the background is powered also by Mento because this is,
in the end, the core of our platform that we make these swaps available easily.
And users can try that out, that swap between two dollar stablecoins.
The reason for this, again, could be I have better on- and off-ramps in a certain region,
or I can save with one stablecoin, but I can pay with the other,
or my friend only uses the other stablecoin.
So also here, swaps are actually extremely important.
And one really key feature that we think will bring a lot of value as the stablecoin space
develops and matures is that the Mento platform can also integrate
other non-dollar stablecoins as well.
As we see more and more issuers come online and build sufficient liquidity
and have good enough PEG models, we can actually integrate those
into the Mento platform so that they can tap into this FPMM model that Marcus described
and not rely on the need to boot shop liquidity and permutate that across
every single currency pair in traditional AMM liquidity pools.
So for example, if there is a new British pound stablecoin or Australian dollar stablecoin
or what have you, they can actually plug into this infrastructure and be tradable and usable
across all the different currency pairs too.
So we believe that's going to be a huge value to the industry and the space
and other stablecoin issuers as well.
Could, for example, also be a CBDC that is launched in a certain market
which is maybe widely accepted.
But the problem then is that the CBDC doesn't have all the integrations
or all the on and off ramps that maybe USDT has in other markets.
And then being able to swap from your Brazilian real CBDC to USDT
is a very important feature that this swap works efficiently.
And again, an AMM is probably not the most efficient market for that
because then arbitrageurs actually have to balance the pools always at the price
where currently the Brazilian real and the US dollar trades, which is an inefficient setup.
Yeah, understood on the need to go back to a currency
that might have the integrations that you need at that moment.
In the context of this longer tale of currency stablecoins,
if I hold a Nigerian Naira stablecoin, for example,
how is the support for that with payment cards?
For example, because I know with USDC, there are a lot of evolving ways
that I can stream that to a credit card and make a payment using USDC somewhat seamlessly.
Granted, that's still early in evolving.
So how do you see that evolution with this longer tale of stablecoins that is still emerging?
From a product perspective, I see it in an arc
because USDC or some of these more established stablecoins have developed these rails.
You can actually use the mental protocol as a stopgap in between
and productize that entire flow and abstract that away from the end user.
For example, in the Nigerian Naira case that you just described,
if the issuer or the card payment provider only accepts USDC,
you can actually use a mental protocol on the backend and integrate that
and deliver USDC at the current exchange rate to the merchant or the payment provider
and take away that entire flow.
As the stablecoin market develops and there's wider and wider acceptance
and regulatory clarity, we'll see those integrations from those issuers
into their local rails and into their local ecosystems.
So I see it as an arc and I think you can productize a lot of that out
and build a good user experience from both the company's integrating
and also the end user as well.
And do you guys feel like you're competing with larger players,
traditional institutions or software businesses for those kinds of use cases?
Are they awake to that now?
Yeah, I really don't think so.
ICS is really complementary to the value stack and the value chain.
We are building this platform where you actually can trade and swap
at the current exchange rates.
I think these financial institutions, when you're talking about stablecoins,
that is, will use us in what they offer and the end product that they offer.
Of course, we are looking to disrupt the actual traditional
FX markets and bring more of that on-chain.
But as more and more institutions come on-chain,
we see us as a complementary base layer infrastructure
to power all their services that they provide.
And it's even compared to existing marketplaces.
We offer an additional marketplace here.
And therefore, I think this, I would say, creates a lot of arbitrage volume
that again then helps both the existing marketplace and it helps the network.
And it just makes then trading on-chain more efficient.
Also, as we've mentioned before, we can integrate other stablecoins there.
So everyone can integrate here and benefit from these new types of marketplaces.
And then people, I think, that want to engage on-chain with FX trading in some way
have then a broad range.
We can, in countries where there's no currency live yet, we have by now 15.
We are relatively fast in adding more currencies there.
So we can help with these, but we also can add others here
when there are already currencies live.
So I think, as Danny mentioned, it's just adding more tools for users
and enable actually then a part of the FX market to come on-chain.
And then we really all benefit from this infrastructure
that this infrastructure works globally on the same rails
and takes away a lot of the frictions of today's FX markets.
Yeah, that's exactly right.
Super excited to see everything that's going to be built out.
I think it's still really early days for this space
and really, really exciting things on the horizon, I think.
Yeah, to your point, I think it's interesting in the arc of crypto.
A lot of times it's been the arbitrage and early opportunities
to provide liquidity at a high return,
which attracts the first more traditional players to interact.
And then they stick around once they see a lot of opportunity.
Early in crypto was the high-frequency trading firms,
which were some of the early actors and continue to be very active.
This is the way our industry always bootstraps.
We have to find an optimum between basically giving these incentives
and being a sustainable platform.
I think this is then in the end finding that optimum,
the task of the protocols and projects that are building in this space.
But in the end, yeah, absolutely, you're right.
Do you get any regulatory pushback for providing these products
to potentially people globally?
So I think one important point there is first,
that is the beauty of building fully open source,
of building smart contract based.
In the end, we build infrastructure that users then can use.
And in most of the markets out there, if then users use that infrastructure
that is very transparent, most regulators are fine.
The on and off ramps are in most countries and should be regulated
when you basically go from fiat into digital currencies.
And I think this is also good and important.
And then in the end, we still, even though we build in the more decentralized way
and we are focusing on building infrastructure and not regulated products,
we still want to engage with the regulator and basically tell them,
hey, this is what we're building, do you like it?
And in most of the countries where we are now live,
actually the regulator likes this because again,
it's all smart contract based, it's all open source.
This collateral for the stablecoin sits on chain,
so everyone can directly verify it.
All transactions can be verified.
And therefore, I think there's a lot of openness for this.
And we've seen also a shift globally from regulators
and not only because there's a shift in the US,
but also because every country around the world
is now looking deeper into this technology.
And therefore, we are very, I think, positive on regulation.
I think it's needed and I think it's good for us as an infrastructure builder.
Yeah, the Genius Act just passed Senate last night.
Yeah, I was about to say, big day for us all.
Yeah, we'll see as that moves up the chain.
And I think a lot of countries in the world and regulatory bodies
will use that as the baseline for their framework.
So sending in the positive direction.
I've heard a lot of stories like that already,
how companies operating in other regions are seeing a positive way
because of friendly or crypto regulation in the US.
What products are you guys seeing demand for
when it comes to the tail of currencies that you support
and maybe even touching on some of the micro lending directions?
What do you think people want in this market regime
and how are you positioning?
So I think maybe to get started, again, there's different directions
how the mental platform can be used.
You mentioned micro lending, for example,
and here we've partnered with many micro lenders
and I think for them it's good to have that choice
to be able to offer loans to small businesses now on chain
and can give access to capital on chain.
And there's huge demand for it because there's a huge credit gap
in many regions of the world.
Many regions of the world actually don't operate on the ability
and not because people are...
You're saying small and medium businesses just don't even have access to credit.
Yeah, exactly.
And the reason that they don't have access
is actually what holds many regions of the world back.
The entrepreneurs in these regions are at least as creative
as in any other region of the world.
But lack of capital is the biggest problem.
And now being able to offer access to capital
both in local currency and in global currency
already removes some of these frictions.
So if you look into micro lending, I think this can unlock a lot.
Pairing this with giving people the ability to hedge currency exposure
and to speculate also on currencies
makes these digital currencies even more liquid.
And therefore, again, this also helps the micro lending case.
So I think all these different use cases actually benefit from each other.
There's a huge network effect there.
If I have three traders that want to speculate on, I don't know,
how the dollar evolves over the next two weeks,
they actually make the dollar stablecoins more liquid.
If they speculate against the euro or against the Japanese yen,
they make these markets more liquid.
And these markets then can enable micro lending use cases.
So I think the network effects of this are huge.
And this is also why we see these crazy trading volumes
in the FX markets every day.
Not all of it is speculation, a lot of it is hedging.
There's all sorts of other operations.
And this is what we can bring on chain now.
I mentioned earlier in our conversation,
but cross border payments, both from the end user admin standpoint
and also from B2B standpoint,
I think is really unlocked by non-US dollar stablecoins.
Actually, there's some loose data around this,
but there are a ton of businesses in jurisdictions
that aren't served by traditional banking rails
that actually use USDT today to move value across borders.
And that is mainly due to the fact that there aren't many other options
to do this on chain historically.
As we see more and more of these come live,
we can actually see local currency stablecoins
powering these transactions in their currency of choice
and being able to swap at real-world FX rates without that.
I think longer term, to your point around regulatory clarity,
we'll actually see some of the more tradfied type FX use cases come on chain.
For example, a lot of firms, enterprises actually use deliverable
FX forwards to hedge their receivables or some of their revenue.
That can be unlocked with local stablecoins on chain.
And actually, it provides added benefits
because of the programmability of blockchain rails
that you typically have to rely on a prime broker or an OTC desk for.
And it's crazy, but you still pick up the phone
and call your broker to do some of these trades today.
And that removes a lot of that need and inefficiency
as more of these things come online.
Maybe one more example of a typical flow that actually both enables FX trading
and enables use cases that benefit end users, for example, microlending.
If you're a market maker that makes the Bitcoin to Kenyan shilling book in Kenya,
then there are times where you actually have demand for Kenyan shilling
and there are times where you have excess supply of Kenyan shilling
always depending on how Bitcoin evolves and depending on the volatility of Bitcoin.
So you as a market maker in that case have a need for going in between Kenyan shilling
and other currencies to, in the end, satisfy your FX needs.
What you also do then with that is actually you make a Kenyan shilling stablecoin
much more liquid with that.
That then again helps a microlender in that market to give more loans to users.
And these users again find liquid markets, not only on Mento, for example,
between a Kenyan shilling and a dollar.
They also not on Mento maybe find very liquid markets between Kenyan shilling and Bitcoin.
But then maybe with their loan, they also want to do other use cases of chain.
But these two use cases, microlending and then actually trading in the end support each other.
I imagine life becomes a lot easier for that market maker of the Kenyan shilling
when all of a sudden firms all over the world and visuals all over the world
have actual access to get shilling because it's a stablecoin
and it's physically accessible versus, to my knowledge,
it's not the easiest currency to actually get access to if you're a firm in New York, for example.
Totally, totally.
And I think offering these markets then we need to do it in a way that is efficient for these firms
because of course they benefit them from small spreads between the assets they trade
and therefore accessing this currency needs to happen in a very efficient way.
And we think with our FPMMs, these fixed price market makers, we allow them users
to actually get the currency they need at the price that is the right price for these assets.
I want to close with a parting thought from you guys, which is,
I think there's clear utility here for the evolution of on-chain FX and financial markets.
Why do you think the wider audience should care about on-chain FX and about Mento's mission?
And what is the impact on your typical user?
So I think why people should care, A, because this is the largest market in the world
and Web3 has a lot of advantages for that market.
So we actually should bring a fraction of this market on-chain.
Again, $7.5 trillion trading volume every day.
If you only look at the FX stock market, it's still more than $2 trillion every day.
So if you get a fraction of that spot market on-chain, then actually all the stablecoin
projects out there, all the networks out there, all the blockchains out there,
actually benefit from that a lot.
And therefore I think people should care.
And I think we offer a very open solution.
We are now bringing this solution to the multi-chain and want to partner with other
networks out there that have an interest in FX.
So we are basically not tribal.
We are very open to partner with anyone here to bring this solution to the world.
And I think this has a lot of advantages.
And these advantages are actually ranging from trading use cases to end-user focused use cases
and therefore are relevant for both retail markets and NC markets as well.
Yeah, I think Marcus wrapped it up really nicely.
But FX, cross-border payments, all these use cases has been like a pipe dream for all of
us building in this space for many years.
And I think having this infrastructure, being able to swap at real world prices
will really open up Pandora's box on what could be built on top of it.
So just really, really excited there and what it enables in the rest of the industry.
Well, I'll leave it there.
Likewise, very excited.
Thank you guys for coming on and hope to have you back soon.
Amazing.
Thanks, Wyatt.
Really appreciate it.
Thank you so much for having us.
Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To find out more about Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc.
To listen to all of our podcast episodes, please go to onthebrink-podcast.com
or just click on the tab on our website.
Thanks for listening.
