TITLE: Stablecoin-powered digital payments in Sub-Saharan Africa (Charles Hamelt) [Castle Island Ventures]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Opera_Minipay_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets discussed in this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression
of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by Bad Mortgage Investments, Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be liquidated.
The federal government loans American International Group, AIG, $85 billion.
This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage
giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped $75 billion more into Britain's ailing economy with a
new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin.
Bitcoin.
I'm Wyatt Kazrashahi and on today's episode, I sat down with Charles Hamelt, the creator
of Opera Mini Pay.
Mini Pay is an app for saving, sending, and spending in US dollars in Sub-Saharan Africa
and now expanding more broadly powered by stablecoins.
There are over 8 million Mini Pay wallets and that number continues to grow.
We now are seeing a proliferation of stablecoin enabled dollar accounts, but Mini Pay was
an early entry into the market in 2023 with a now sizable footprint.
In witness this expansion of dollar access firsthand, Charles offers deeply insightful
views on how people use stablecoins, how governments and large corporations are responding, and
what is on the horizon.
Charles, thank you for joining us.
Excited to chat today.
Excited to be here.
Would you mind touching on, to start with, how did you become involved with Mini Pay?
Very much from inception, actually.
Mini Pay, first of all, is important to understand as an opera product, an opera browser company.
I've been working at Opera for a number of years and was part of the initial team that
built this Web3 wallet back in 2018.
It was a very early attempt at this hybrid browser wallet product.
So I was very involved in that, left for a few years, but then I was keen to get back
and to create something very different.
A wallet that was using a lot of the same tech, but gave a very different experience
and really focused on simplicity rather than trying to do it all as it can easily happen
in crypto.
So it was something of a crypto native wallet to start with, which is different from today's
product?
Well, it was very much, think of it as the built-in metamask product.
So instead of having an extension, you had a browser that could do it all, very much
for crypto natives.
And Mini Pay is really trying to be something else, something for a much wider audience,
really centered around this payment with stablecoins use case, but leveraging much of the same
tech, actually.
The Mini Pay product as exists today, did that evolve because that's where you saw that
there was going to be market appetite for the product?
Or was it that you had a vision beforehand that that's where crypto was going to go and
stablecoins had a more wide audience use case?
So it really started as looking what's in front of us.
Uprise, by now, is a 30-year-old company and really focused since inception around access
to information in all kinds of contexts, pre-smartphones to up until now with both
desktop and mobile products.
And over the years, we've grown to having a large audience, large user base in many
countries, a big amount of users also on the African continent.
And we started seeing signs about two years ago that, okay, there's a lot of appetite
for dollar products and stablecoins versus overall crypto assets.
So we started thinking, okay, we have this large distribution, we have this natural demand
for dollar-based products.
We have technology to build a wallet to deal with those crypto dollars.
So let's see what we can build.
And learning from existing systems for mobile money on the continent that are very similar
to Venmo, but things like Empest, things like Airtel Money, really sending value with phone
numbers and giving access to money versus giving access to information is where the
idea started.
And then it was about, okay, how do we build this?
What is the core user experience?
Is it a self-custody product?
Is it a custodial product?
And how do we bridge the gap to local currencies?
It's a big part of the challenge.
And early on, did you see people discovering stablecoins like you mentioned because they
were crypto users already and saw it on Binance?
Or was there more of a self-service aspect where people found that stablecoins existed
even if they weren't crypto users?
Or how was that early discovery happening?
This crypto audience that was already familiar with stablecoins was present then and it's
present now and it's growing, but there's a much bigger pie, if you will, of just access
to dollars.
And in a lot of those countries where MiniPay started, there's natural demand for dollar
things.
The dollar is very much seen as a feature rather than a bug.
So having a product that leverages that inherent demand is always a good place to start.
Obviously, now we're also growing outside of Africa.
We just recently launched our mobile app as a standalone MiniPay app, which delivers
the same experience.
Not for a global audience outside Africa.
And on that note, can you touch on how are people using MiniPay?
You alluded to it a bit.
And where is it being used today?
You mentioned Africa's initial nexus.
So Samsara in Africa is a big part of the user base because we started MiniPay as a
bundle product in the Opera Mini browser.
So Opera Mini is a household name on the continent.
And bundling MiniPay within it made sense because data usage is a big concern, which
is also why Opera Mini is popular.
Bundling means that people don't have to get another app.
They're in the same user experience, visual language environment, and it's a trusted
place.
That was our initial starting point of bundling Opera Mini and growing in that subsurface
region.
Now we're taking that same experience and taking it globally, both on iOS and Android,
and integrating through that with new partners that allow us to bridge with the traditional
financial system.
Are people keeping large balances for a long time in MiniPay?
Are they moving money quickly?
How are their behaviors?
What we see is the velocity is very high because it's a payment-based product.
It's not a holding wallet.
It's very dollar focused.
So we see high velocity on those payments.
And because these payments are basically frictionless and essentially free, and we have all these
ways to make your balance useful by being able to pay merchants and withdraw to local
currency that a lot of the utilities is from that.
And I think overall, that's a part of the product that is typically underdeveloped.
Crypto wallet products is the off-frame part because typically crypto has been about speculation.
It's been about number goes up is the use case.
So you let money there and withdrawal and connecting to the fiat part on the way out
was really much not thought about.
So it's something we had to build oftentimes together with new partners to unlock because
there hasn't been really anyone focusing on that so far.
I agree.
I think the off-frame piece is actually a gating factor for people not putting more
money into systems like this because they have their working expenses and they're going
to need to have instant integration to get money into traditional systems.
And I think that has been a place that's lacked.
Building a stablecoin product where you stay in stables is trivial.
Anyone can do that because it's blockchain native and makes a lot of assumptions about
what the user knows and what the user has.
But building a stablecoin product that is self-custody but also connects with the fiat
world on both ends, that's quite hard and it hasn't been done at a large scale before.
So the payments that you're seeing people make, is it mostly into traditional accounts
that vendors will have or into traditional accounts that other people will have or is
it mini pay to mini pay wallet or is it mini pay to Binance or what most of them look like?
So a lot of the activity right now is just first party withdrawal.
So you're withdrawing to yourself, you're making your balance go from stables into your
preferred local currency.
But there's a growing trend of third party payments to merchants, to pay bills, to pay
for anything really.
And that's where I think the most exciting connectivity part is, is where we connect
the stablecoin balance to instant payment methods around the world to make this balance
useful everywhere.
Which stablecoins are you offering to users?
So we support three dollar stablecoins today.
We support USDT, Tether, USDC, and CUSD, which is a sell-o specific dollar stablecoin.
Mini pay also, as you mentioned, is a sell-o product.
We've chosen sell-o for a few reasons that I can go into later if you want.
But building on sell-o has allowed us to also build an experience that works well in low
resource environments and is very efficient overall.
Has the stablecoin landscape evolved as you would have expected when you started building
mini pay?
And in that vein, would you have expected those to be the stablecoins or do you think
there would be other stablecoins that would be at scale now?
Well, it's certainly changed in the past two years from a regulatory point of view, from
an awareness and acceptance point of view.
The word stablecoin, sometimes I'm a fan of it, sometimes not so much.
I think as an industry, it's probably an exercise there to define exactly that term.
Stablecoin is also a good one, but the market has changed from that aspect.
Now I think a big challenge when you build a product that supports multiple stablecoins
is how do you tell the user, is this a conscious choice?
Is this a market-based choice?
Like let's say the local fiat partners use one in particular, then obviously that's the
one you'll need to use.
So interoperability is something that I hope would have come further.
Between stablecoins, between blockchains?
Between stablecoins and blockchain interoperability is one topic, but I don't think anyone benefits
from having a hundred different kinds of dollars.
Add some letters after USD or before.
I think from an adoption perspective, it creates challenges if things are not interoperable.
So we've done some new stuff in MiniPay to alleviate some of those problems.
So you can, for example, merge your USDC, USDT and CUSD balances with just a drag and
drop.
You don't really have to think about managing your balance separately.
They're all essentially treated like one common balance that you can combine.
That makes sense.
What offerings are you getting requested for the platform?
Are people content saving in dollars?
Do they want interest-bearing accounts or anything of that sort?
So what we're hearing is that savings and yield opportunities is more of a nice to have
than a must have.
I think if you look at some of these sub-Saharan African countries, the fintech marketing there
will shout for 10%, 15%, 20% interest rates, yield with local currency.
And from a marketing perspective, that's very attractive.
So if you have a product in the market that says, yeah, we have 4% or 5% treasury level
yield, just from a billboard point of view, it's not as attractive, even though in nature
it is very different and competitive, the marketing doesn't really resonate.
So I think there's a challenge there, but also we don't want to be in a situation where
your balance is locked up.
The thing is called MiniPay.
We're working so hard to facilitate paying both MiniPay users and existing systems.
Having that balance locked up in a yield product, even with low friction, we can go against
that.
So we're looking at that.
We're looking at what are the possible solutions there.
It's something that users are asking, but it's not the main value prop for us.
So our value prop is really around that connectivity and ease of use for this new P2P money technology.
Did people readily trusted what MiniPay was doing early on in these regions who might
not have accessed a similar product in the past?
That's an interesting question because we started MiniPay, as I said, within Opera Mini.
So people trust Opera Mini for accessing information and now they're being exposed to this new
product within the same environment.
What we found is that even though you have brand trust, building an app that deals with
money requires you to upgrade that trust.
People have different expectations when they deal with an app that deals with money.
So even though we started with brand trust, you need to work for it.
For a lot of people, having money in their hand, buying money in their pocket is ultimately
the ultimate test to know if this is real.
So that's why also having really solid local off-ramp to local currency is part of building
that trust because if they cannot see it in their existing system and pay for stuff
that they do on a weekly basis, then kind of misses the point.
It's either not useful or not trusted.
And what do you think happens to local currency in that wake?
So I think it's to be seen.
I think this technology is very powerful and making it accessible through such a simple
interface is something quite novel.
We have to see also what now from the regulatory aspect of dollar stablecoins becomes more
concrete.
What will other countries do?
Will that accelerate other jurisdictions to adopt stablecoin frameworks and allow local
stables to thrive, which is not the case today?
We'll see.
But at the end of the day, connecting blockchain rails to traditional rails, I think will be
a relevant problem for the coming years and products like ours will try to fill that gap.
Can you speak more on local stablecoins and the extent to which that's been a focus of
opera?
Because I think that's a segment of the market people overlook.
Yeah, it's overlooked because all the eyes are being drawn to the dollar, like in a way
the dollar is the best meme.
The one everyone wants.
Yes.
So there's a marketing aspect to it.
It's hard to just grab attention for local currency on the blockchain.
But I think if you ask most people, they don't like converting currencies.
It's not a pleasant experience because oftentimes you have big number, it becomes small number.
You have, let's say, 100 shillings becoming $10, let's say.
You always have this impression that you're losing somehow.
But if you have a product, I think where local stables are super interesting and valuable
from user perspective, if the number is the same, if you can open the app and say, okay,
I want to put 1,000 shillings in this and it's 1,000 shilling in the app, then you feel
like I didn't lose anything on the way in.
Because I think as crypto people, we've been trained to this is how it works and you lose
on the way in and there's fees and all that.
But if you can create this one-to-one experience with local stables, I think that's a big motivator
for adopting those.
Then you can go to dollar stables if you want.
There's a mental barrier when the shillings can only be off-chain and the dollars can
only be on-chain as opposed to having them in the same account.
Yeah.
So I think if everything's on-chain and you can come in one-to-one with your local currency,
then it's just psychologically a better experience.
Then you can do whatever you want with it.
Having this FX on the way in, I think some people will feel very good about it.
But a lot of people just would prefer to see the same number.
I would think regulators would be promoting local stable coins, but I haven't seen it
much yet.
Yeah.
I haven't seen either and I think in a lot of ways, the US leads the way there.
And if there's concrete developments there in the near future, maybe that's going to
accelerate other people to look into that.
How have regulators interacted with Opera historically and with Opera Mini Pay?
So Mini Pay is just like a browser, it's a pure technology product.
So browsers allow you to browse the internet.
It supports a few protocols to do that.
Mini Pay is a way to interact with these new protocols, these new networks where the information
is money.
So from a conceptual point of view, these are equivalent products, these are pure technology
products.
We're a self-custody product, so people control their funds.
They can export their keys to other products.
And the regulatory aspect to Mini Pay really lies on the connection to the fiat world.
So everywhere Mini Pay is available, we have one or more partners that allow us to bridge
that gap from the traditional world to blockchain.
And that's where the regulatory and compliance requirements come in to either deposit or
withdraw into Mini Pay.
Do you see Mini Pay functioning like a bank at any point in time?
Are embedded financial services, say a mortgage on a home, something that you guys will aspire
to provide?
Mini Pay is, it's interesting you asked that because yes, it's a very simple app that allows
you to access dollars and send dollars with phone numbers.
That's the first level of it.
The basis.
And we have this fiat connectivity on both sides, but we also allow third-party developers
to build mini apps that are integrated in the wallet.
So things like you're suggesting could be built by a third party that has their own
company, their own brand that can get distribution through this easy to use dollar wallet.
So that's something that we're really pushing for this year is how do we make that developer
experience better?
How do we make these feel more integrated so that users don't feel lost?
Because a lot of these crypto native products are not really taught for a non-crypto audience.
So when you bring them in Mini Pay, you need to rethink from which words we're using to
describe this and what interface challenges we have.
So we hope that third-party developers build mini apps that really expand the use cases
and that we can help drive the distribution and users to those products.
Do you think that banks and other local financial institutions will in a way be forced to interact
with stablecoins and provide stablecoin offerings?
Absolutely, because at the end of the day, it's about efficiency.
And banks are in the business of making money.
There's a more efficient way to make money than there's a natural incentive to do that.
So I think it's inevitable that more banks will integrate stablecoin technology somehow.
And I think we're probably going to benefit from that as a side effect, because then they
will be treated more like money from the financial institution's point of view.
They will be hopefully more interoperable.
The on and off ramp will feel more natural, like a traditional fintech flow versus crypto
on ramp.
So I think we will get the side benefits of that.
With that in mind, what do you think are the biggest areas where we still need improvement?
Is it card payment integration?
You mentioned off-ramps, but what's preventing this adoption from happening faster already?
So the part that I'm most excited about, and I think is being underlooked, is third-party
payments using local payment methods.
So what I mean by that is being able to use your stablecoin balance and pay directly to
whatever the local relevant method is.
For example, in Brazil, that's fixed.
In the Philippines, that's Gcash.
In Kenya, that's M-Pesa.
Things like that.
A lot of countries have these dominant instant payment methods, and being able to pay directly
to those, pay directly to people, pay directly to merchants, and allow stablecoins to connect
to these existing network effects within each country, I think that's being overlooked.
A concrete example of that is, if you land in Kenya today, you have two choices.
Either you queue up to the Safaricom booth to buy a Safaricom SIM card and top it up
with cash, or you just have MiniPay, which you've topped up in your home country, but
you can pay, both ways are equivalent.
You can now pay any M-Pesa merchant with this app, and the same story can be replicated
globally.
So cards, I think, it grabs a lot of attention because we, in our countries, and I think
you're in the US, we all use cards on a daily basis.
But a lot of countries have either skipped cards or have found more direct alternatives.
Being able to connect directly to that is, I think, the most overlooked, and we have
some pretty exciting stuff coming in that regard.
And as those systems continue to evolve, is dollar hegemony a long-term byproduct of this
stablecoin adoption, or where do we land in terms of the distribution of global monetary
systems?
Oh, that's a Nick Carter question.
Yeah, I stole it from him.
So look, I'm not a macro guy.
I think it really depends on what the response will be.
Once the US passes some kind of stablecoin legislation, and basically, and trenches allow
all the financial institutions to interact with this in a way they haven't been able
to do before, it's all going to be down to the response of all the other countries.
Are they going to just sit and wait and let that USD stable adoption continue to grow?
Or are they going to be aggressively promoting local alternatives?
It remains to be seen.
I think it's more of a politics and regulatory questions than a technology question.
That makes sense.
I think it's to be determined where we go a little bit.
But the dollar is the best meme.
It is.
And memes are powerful.
So we'll see.
And there's a lot of momentum.
There is a lot of momentum.
Well, Charles, thank you for joining.
I've enjoyed our conversation, and I hope you join us again soon.
Love Castle Island.
Thank you so much for having me.
Thank you.
Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To find out more about Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc.
To listen to all of our podcast episodes, please go to onthebrink-podcast.com or just
click on the tab in our website.
Thanks for listening.
