TITLE: Crypto Security and Nation-State Threats with Groom Lake (Cupid & Hercules) [Podcast]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Groom_Lake_-_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
On today's episode, I sat down with Cupid and Hercules of the Groom Lake team.
Groom Lake is a security firm focused on both protecting companies in the crypto space from
exploits and recovering funds when exploits do occur. Today's guests' true identities remain
redacted for security purposes given their field of work, but they were generous enough to join me
for a discussion on cybersecurity and crypto and how today's attackers are looking to carry out
cybercrime. In the episode, we discuss the threat posed by nation-state-level threat actors,
what companies should be doing to enhance their own security, and how the security landscape
in crypto stands to evolve. I hope you enjoy our conversation.
The federal government loans American international group AIG 85 billion dollars. This is a different
kind of market and the Fed is asleep. The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis. The Bank of
England has pumped 75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy with a new round of
quantitative easing. You print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin. Bitcoin.
Cupid and Hercules from Groom Lake. Appreciate you guys joining us. I want to dive right in.
My understanding of Groom Lake and what people in the industry might be vaguely familiar with
is that it's a private military organization combating cybercrime and crypto specifically.
What does that mean and what happens when you guys are called into action?
So Groom Lake, well, we don't own any tanks or things like that. On top of the retained approach
to security and intelligence that we do, that military aspect really comes in when you're
looking at not just the intelligence work to do some very strategic campaigns to find out
information, but also the incident response aspect because we can deploy to physically go
after hackers as well. So that's where that military aspect really comes to play.
Cool. Understood. And can you talk about what engagements will look like or how you'll engage
with firms in this space? Typically firms come and engage with us because they want to have this
security and intelligence attachment to their team so that nothing happens. So we come in and we
layer in security and intelligence over time, and we have this close concierge relationship with
them. And what does that look like? What that looks like is where you're layering in Web2
security fundamentals. That's where we really focus because that's where over half of the hacks
that occur are happening, especially as the landscape has shifted and nation states are
seeing that. They're happening via Web2 vulnerabilities is what you're saying?
Yeah, I would say her. Do you want to jump in on that?
Most definitely. Specific to a lot of the exploits and issues that we face in crypto,
a lot of people tend to believe that the main focus needs to be on chain,
auditing your code and so forth. But the hard truth is the human element and the
misconfiguration side of the house is truly the weakest link that we see in the industry.
A lot of the whales and these protocols tend to try to build very, very quickly. And in doing so,
they actually are very stressed out and they skip a lot of the fundamental things that they
should put in place to prevent a successful hack of an account. Zoom is a great example,
which we'll get into a little bit later, I assume. But there's a lot of people in the
space that are unfortunately being targeted quite heavily by North Koreans to actually be
social engineered by posing as a friend, which will eventually lead to them getting hacked.
And then of course, funds being drained. Is that a vulnerability in particular that's
top of mind for you guys at the moment? Would you say it's one of the more common ones?
I would say so. Right now, there's been a major shift in the industry, mainly because a lot of
the advanced threats like nation state and even very young people that are just being degen hackers
are starting to go after crypto just because it's becoming more popular. So if you look at
the adoption curve of crypto as a whole, I would say it's near one to one of what the threat actors
are actually going after as well. And they are starting to realize that social engineering
of people is the biggest link. So yeah, it's definitely becoming the biggest thing in the
space. And with that, we've actually geared a lot of our security schedule, if you will,
with these clients and onboarding specific to operational security. So actually getting them
into a room, educating them on these issues in the space, and as well as how to prevent them
if they do occur. And I think the other thing to hone in on on this topic is that you have
different people who have different security concerns based off of the business vertical
that they work at a company. So a developer is going to have very different security concerns
than a head of marketing or someone in BD. And these people who want to socially engineer
companies know this and they're going to go after you accordingly. So they'll approach them as maybe
a fake investor, that's been a common one, maybe come with job offers for a dev, all these different
ways to just get people to click that link, have that conversation, and then they start to exploit
them and pivot through the company. So by understanding the social engineering, these
social exploit attempts, they'll pretend to be some sort of actor that would do business with a
firm, for example, and exploit them via that direction. What are the workflows that you guys
will put in place for partners when they're under this vulnerability? I'll dive into the first part
of the question and then transition to that. But not just investors and stuff that we're seeing
with social engineering. At this point, we've actually seen that a lot of the threat actors
will actually do their research on people who they're targeting. On individuals, you're saying?
Correct. So let's say friends, family, people they haven't spoken to in years that they might
just have a random connection with on even LinkedIn, for example, that's one we saw not
too long ago. And they'll go ahead and duplicate the telegram and so forth, and then actually
attack. But in terms of workflow for preventing it, there's a couple of ways that we do it.
So of course, education, in my opinion, is the number one factor with things. Actually educate
them, show them one-to-one of what these attacks look like. So actually bringing up visuals,
explaining these things in depth and so forth, and doing it in a repetitive way
toward they actually obtain the information. The second half of that is taking the preventative
steps from the organizational side of actually working with them as a virtual CISO, as you will,
and turning the culture within the organization to where people are security minded in general.
And then unfortunately, if somebody is targeted, we tend to get them to a point through education
to where they actually know the steps to take immediately to reduce the likelihood of a
successful exploit. And if they get to a point where they are unfortunately exploited, we will
go ahead and be activated. We will join within five minutes and we will work to contain the threat
and then remediate anything that comes from that. And to add on there, it's a balancing act. It's
between advisement and implementation. And so when you're advising things, you're looking at
a company's onboarding and offboarding practices and identifying gaps that you need to implement
new strategies to make it more secure. It could be how they're accessing certain sensitive systems
and then implementing solutions to make sure that's more secure. But I think the other big
thing to this, and it's why we have intelligence as a core offering, is that intelligence really
complements the security aspect. That's where we can really start to dig in on what would a threat
actor be able to find on this executive team or on the entire company to different people in general.
And what data is newly surfacing as well. Because if you can have that knowledge, you can, one,
know what kind of things you could be approached with from a socially engineered perspective.
But two, work to then mitigate that data footprint that you have. I think a good example is the other
day we had found there was a telegram number being leaked. And we had looked into the source of that
leak and then we had made sure that that was taken down. So now people couldn't come in and
socially engineer them on that front as easily. Understood. And a lot of the workflows that we
talked about, you guys touched on this briefly, are non-crypto specific ways that exploiters are
using to attack crypto companies or organizations. Are they choosing to attack crypto organizations
because of the perceived ability to exploit funds, maybe as opposed to other organizations?
Or why does it seem like the crypto industry in particular is being targeted?
I would say specifically in my experience, I came from a very traditional financial background,
doing traditional boring security engineering. And a lot of the threat actor groups that actually
go after just traditional institutions, normally there isn't a magical honeypot of funds that they
can just take. Whereas crypto, it differs. In the traditional world, a lot of the time they will
either steal information or deploy something like ransomware. And then if they steal the
information, attempt to sell it. So that's how they gain the funds. In crypto, it's much easier
because you have those gold bars that are locked behind the safe. You just have to get into the
safe. And unfortunately, because the industry is still relatively new, obviously it's a very easy
space to attack, unfortunately, just given the nature of how people operate within the industry.
And are most of the threat actors that you're talking about, are they nation state affiliated?
I would say in the beginning, yes, a mass majority of them, I'd probably say near 80%. But at this
point, I'm seeing a relation between both the nation state actors, as well as just traditional
normie hackers, and even the youth. Recently, we did an investigation on a website that was cloned
and everything. And we actually saw that the person that was stealing these funds was 17 years of age,
which is quite young, obviously. But yeah, we're seeing still, of course, that the nation states,
for obvious reasons, but even the adoption of the youth in Gen Z today.
How are you able to detect the age of that attacker if you're able to share something like that?
Well, I was going to say prior to that, I mean, in terms of the age of the attacker, that can be
tipped off from if it's an insider threat, or even some of those intelligence threads that you can
pull can allow you to identify exactly who it is. And so that's how you find out. But what we see
from an insider perspective is, yeah, while it is nation state sometimes, I think I was telling
you last time we spoke, Wyatt, through the intelligence work have found the Lazarus Group
plant working at a company for two years as a principal debt when the company was in stealth
mode. But we've also found lots of risks where people are hiring folks who have these
obscured backgrounds. There isn't a nice thing to the anonymous nature of crypto that people
really value. But sometimes if you have a multi-billion dollar company, you may want to
know a bit more about the people that you're bringing on the team, because we have seen
rogue actors who aren't connected to nation states even exploit a company, steal funds,
because it was a crime of opportunity. They were given so much trust and so much access that
eventually over time, they made that decision. And that's where we then come in and hunt them down.
From your perspective, are countries like the US making adequate efforts to try and combat these
sorts of threat actors? The United States specifically and even the world as a whole,
I would say no, in all honesty. Just given how the industry operates as a whole,
people are very anti-regulation in a lot of ways. I think unfortunately, but fortunately,
it is really up to the protocols and VCs and so forth to actually become security minded and
start adopting security minded policies within the work. It's always a cat and mouse game with crime
and regulation is always catching up to the new attack vectors and the things that folks are
being exploited by. So since consulting and working in crypto, I have seen a shift
that more and more teams are becoming security minded where the history of the space, it really
started from this perspective of if you have a smart contract audit, you are good. That is the
trust signal for the investors. That's the trust signal for the users and all the stakeholders
that this is a safe protocol to use. But now that we've seen this ever increasing shift into these
web two fundamentals, the human side of things, that's really woken people up to, I need to
start to implement my own security solutions. And then I think we're going to see more and
more regulation come in on top of that, like Satu clients and things like that. So the US,
I would say does have a good signal of trust, but we still come across many, many companies,
large corporations who don't even have two FA on some iris environments. And so that's why it's
easy to think this won't happen to me because everyone's so focused on building and just
shipping and getting out there. But I think teams have to have this mindset that engaging, whether
it's an outside entity like Groom Lake or whether it's bringing on someone that will handle that
internally, you're taking things off your plate to give to an important subject, which is security,
so that you can use your time in a higher leveraged way, which is building the thing,
making that the main thing. Makes sense. You mentioned two FA, which I think a lot of people
are familiar with. Are there any blanket suggestions you guys would have for organizations that want to
tighten operational security and security generally? Oh yeah, most definitely. I think
the first one is obviously MFA. It should be enabled and actually enforced across the organization
because it is extremely easy for a threat actor if they have your password to authenticate into your
account and then issues arise. But on top of that, if you really want to go the full length, I would
recommend UB keys as a whole. So it kind of looks like a USB, but it is a very, very more strengthened
version of MFA, if you will, for your accounts. I also think companies as a whole need to at least
be doing, let's say like a quarterly audit across all environments as a whole. We commonly find that
people genuinely don't know who has, let's say, administrator access or even access to a lot of
their systems. So actually putting an operational procedure on even something as a quarterly basis
to actually go into the systems, verify who is in them and who has access to what can really make
the difference. Understood. And then those are great suggestions from everything that I've heard
in the crypto industry thus far. I think unfortunately we also touch on individual safety and I'd say in
today's day and age, I have my real name here I guess, I think of being in the crypto industry
as there being a slight additional risk when it comes to your individual safety. How would you
suggest people look at their individual safety in light of some of these threat actors? I would say
the first and biggest one is when it comes to individual safety, obviously you need to operate
with a general sense of operational security. So if you're going out, going to a club, doing whatever,
don't post on your public Instagram that you're sitting here, you have a million dollar watch on
and so forth. But yeah, I think in general the biggest thing is the operational security side
of the house. Trying to not put your name fully out there if you can, but obviously for some people
it is required. Just try to operate in a more smart way in your day-to-day operations, but
Kupa definitely left some comments on that as well. We've been thinking deeply about this for a while
because individuals have their own concerns and threat vectors to consider, even individuals within
a company. But there's lots of traders who don't operate with a company. So a simple answer will
be that those individuals will be able to in a sense hire Groom Lake as we go and launch one of
these tools that we have coming up. It's a platform that's going to be really focused on data leak
monitoring and operational security and things like that to really lower the risks here. But I
would say that it is certainly a mindset where most of the people that come to us, you will see
that there's this common thread of how they got exploited and it's typically that they were tired,
they were rushed, they weren't getting through because whenever we talk to them, 80-90% of the
time it's 20-20 hindsight. Oh, I should have known that. And these are people who take a huge
thoughtful approach to their security and they've taken to X to say, oh, I'm so secure,
I have so many layers to my security and that's great. But we have to recognize that there's this
mental aspect to it as well. And that if you're moving a lot of funds and you're trying to move
quickly or somebody's trying to rush you for some reason, a big example would be these folks who
poses VCs trying to get people in a call and say, oh, you know, we have a group of VCs or we have
all the advisors in here, jump in the call, oh, sorry, that link didn't work, use this one. And
they're trying to make it so you're not thinking. So slowing down and really thinking that it could
be me that they're going after this time, that will go so far in someone's personal protection
and security. The pushed sense of urgency seems to be a really recurring theme. And I've heard
people where they'll get five phone calls and two emails immediately about their Coinbase account
being compromised or about the fact that their transaction last week didn't go through for some
reason. And they create this head rush almost of, I don't know what to do now. Yeah. And crypto is
such a collaborative space that it's okay to reach out to a friend, to someone else who's security
minded and say, hey, does this sound right? Or have you heard of this? That will help be a third
sounding board to just help you slow down as well. Because yeah, at Coinbase, one where people were
being rushed with, oh, we're seeing your funds being moved, that was huge. And we dealt with
new cases in that regard. Yeah. And I've heard stories of people who've talked to others off a
cliff, like you're saying, where you're like, you're about to do something, but thankfully we're here
before. Do you guys work with individuals in any capacity to experience individual fund loss?
So in the fund loss scenario, yes. It's never just companies that come to us when it comes to a
crypto theft. We've even worked with individuals who have some intelligence need or something that
was very personal to them and private that they needed support with and they didn't know where
else to go. So we've worked with people in that regard. And in terms of the proactive stuff,
yeah, we've worked with individuals and whales, folks like that. I think with the advent of this
platform Reaper, that's going to be that opportunity where many individuals can break down that barrier
to entry and get help. And can you speak about Reaper while we're on this subject and what that
does more precisely? Maybe relatedly, I'd love to hear how you think software offerings for proactive
defense in crypto will evolve. Oh, interesting. Okay. I'm interested to hear your take on the
second part, Hercules, but let me give a little low down on Reaper. So Reaper is a tool that we've
developed over time through our folks who have been trained on the intelligence aspect of our
work and capabilities. And it's this 24 seven data leak monitoring tool that allows us to very deeply
find all of the threads that exist on an individual. And we can do that just from getting an email and
a phone number. And people are very surprised when these data points pop up on what exists on them,
because it's even coming up with some account that they made seven years ago that they totally forgot
about is out there and it's leaking some little nuanced piece of their information, which then
allows it to lead to something else. And that gives people this big bird's eye view of everything
that's out there on them. Future versions of this will allow us to do things like scrubbing this data.
It will allow us to do sim swap detection so that people can know if they're being actively
compromised. So we really see Reaper as this ability for individuals in the space to have this
mindful approach to their own operational security, because that's what the space has
really been craving in a big way. And on top of that, from a business perspective, how nice would
it be for an executive or CISO to be able to see the entire data leak footprint of their whole
company and be alerted if anything new comes up on one of their employees? So the second part
of your question though, could you rephrase that? What do you think cybersecurity software looks
like for crypto in a few years time? Oh yeah, most definitely. That's one I get quite excited
about. So I'll answer this in a web two context and transition it over into our world. So in the web
two space, we have a ridiculous amount of security tooling that's SAS based. It's from every single
category that you can imagine from compliance, which is amazing all the way over to pen testing.
But specific to web three in crypto in general, I think we're going to see a massive adoption
of these web two tools, which we already do in development, but there definitely will be a lot
of new tooling that I think talented engineers will create over the next couple of years that
are definitely security focused, but also take core components of web two to introduce them into the
industry and security ways. But I personally think that there is a mindset that a lot of people have
specific to SAS solutions as a whole in regards to web two security is that they are a all in one
solution for everything. But the truth is these solutions supplement your primary efforts. So I
think there will be a lot of software that is adopted across the industry, but I think having
somebody like Groom Lake, for example, is able to lead the efforts and software exists to supplement
the other avenues. Makes sense. That's very helpful. Is this cybercrime that you guys are
dealing with? Is it trending up? Is it trending down or which way do you see it moving? It's
definitely trending up, but I would say personally, the increase in social engineering attempts is
becoming more and more crazy. And the tactics that are being leveraged are becoming different every
day. Very sophisticated. Very sophisticated. Yes. And there's this thing called TTPs, which are
tactics, techniques and procedures. And whenever we investigate a hack, those TTPs will allow us
to do some association of who may have been responsible behind us. And we're seeing the
social engineering specifically is heavily coming through the nation state groups and they wait
quite a while to actually execute and they are using some robust tooling to actually complete
this. They're using custom malware as well as deepfakes, which I had made a post on Twitter not
too long ago about it. Deepfake technology now as a whole is extremely, extremely good. So I even
thought before this meeting, throwing your face on mine and doing a little thing, but didn't have
enough time, but it's quite crazy at this point. To that point, I'd be amiss not to mention AI as
an added attack vector. You hit the nail on the head, I think, with deepfakes. A lot of companies
in this space, to my knowledge, also employ audio verification. You'll respond with your voice or
find who you are. Something like that to me seems like a mechanism that will come under threat in
coming years. So how can you be a couple steps ahead of threat vectors related to deepfakes,
AI mechanisms, et cetera? I think the voice one is something that is often overlooked because you
just think the video, you go to the face. Even as of a year ago, the technology got quite good.
I even, in my experimentation days, took a podcast that FDR did a very long time ago and threw it in
and was able to actually recreate his voice very, very similarly. Just think, if it's good on a
computer, imagine a cell phone doing a call. It would be near spot on. But I think as a whole,
we're going to get to a point with AI and these deepfake technologies as a whole that to actually
prevent them, you have to employ a little bit of true identification if you're onboarding somebody,
for example. But also doing things as simple as telling the person with their hands to simply put
it over their face. Because with the tech today, it is quite hard to actually map over the fingers
and all. But I also think if it's a friend or a colleague or somebody similar, I always recommend
if things get suspicious, hanging up the phone and the call and contact them through another means
that you believe is safe. So that could be returning a phone call, right? Unless they're
SIM swapped because it is true. You can only spoof outbound unless they're SIM swapped or reach out
to them on signal, reach out to them on telegram, or if they're in another room or a friend of a
friend, call that friend and have them speak to them individually. Yeah, those are great suggestions.
In the wake of all of the concerns that we'll collectively face, when should people reach out
to you guys, Groom Lake and how should they get in contact? Reaching out to Groom Lake from a
company perspective, typically we see people reach out at all phases. But the most common would be
when there's some big milestone approaching that's about three months out. And that could be TGE,
could be Maynet launch, anything like that, any major inflection point in a company.
For individuals, when you're thinking about something like Reaper, this is an opportunity to
front run social engineering attempts. So the sooner the better, because then you can have,
we're talking about the AI and the implications of that. But from a defensive perspective,
having something that is your personal hunter killer drone that can just take two pieces of
information and look for a hundred plus different attack vectors on you is going to be really big.
So the sooner you go and implement security, whether you're an individual or a company,
it's always the better because security is this act of layering things over time. And the more
time you have to layer countermeasures, the better off you're going to be.
Definitely. And I'll reinforce that point as well. Doing things early from the beginning is great
from an organizational perspective, because you tend to build a cultural idea around security as
a whole. And going into an organization and reviewing their operational security procedures,
their current tech stack, what their configurations look like across the whole, any change you make
tends to introduce a little bit of friction. It's unfortunately how security works, but with
our packages and the way that we tailor things, we tend to get friction that's very, very minimal.
But going into an organization that has existed for quite a long time and it has been doing things
that they might have thought is right, but it truly is not up to par. It's harder to go backwards
when it will take more time, but we have ways to do it and we are more than happy to do it.
Yeah. It sounds harder to rebuild something that's been around for some time already.
Definitely. Hercules and Cupid, I appreciate you coming on and having a conversation with us and
thank you for the work you continue to do in this space. Yeah. Thank you, Wyatt.
Yeah, man. It's been a pleasure. Thanks for having us on.
Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island. To find out more about
Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc. To listen to all of our podcast episodes, please go to
onthebrink-podcast.com or just click on the tab in our website. Thanks for listening.
