TITLE: Predicate’s Blockchain Compliance and KYC Solution with Nikhil Ragubira [Wyatt Kazushahi Show]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Predicate_Nikhil_Raghuveera_AUDIO

TRANSCRIPT:
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets discussed in this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression
of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by Bad Mortgage Investments, Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be liquidated.
The federal government loans American International Group, AIG, $85 billion.
This is a different kind of market, and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage
giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin, Bitcoin.
This is Wyatt Kazushahi, and today I sat down with Nikhil Ragubira, founder of Predicate.
Predicate is a software solution for embedding rules into blockchain transactions.
Predicate enables partners to seamlessly perform KYC, wallet checks, and other forms of verification
on users, creating a more sound and secure on-chain environment.
Ultimately, Predicate will work with large companies and financial players, startups,
and DeFi protocols alike.
Nikhil personally comes from a background in public policy and economics, and I deeply
value hearing his views on how the industry will evolve.
Without further ado, I hope you enjoy my conversation with Nikhil.
Nikhil, thank you for joining us.
Thanks for having me.
What are the issues in crypto today that Predicate seeks to solve?
Let's start there.
So maybe taking a step back first, our vision at Predicate, and I think many folks share
this, is that blockchains become the global financial settlement system.
And so if that's the case, then what we are actually thinking about to advance and accelerate
the movement of capital onto blockchain-based systems is that you are navigating across
regulated and unregulated markets.
So we're talking about businesses, users, organizations living and operating across
regulated and unregulated markets.
So if that's the case, then really you're building different types of financial products
that are on-chain.
Why on-chain?
You get 24-7 access, global liquidity, composability, all of those things.
From there, then, what Predicate sits is we are essentially the policy infrastructure
that allows organizations and developers to be able to build their financial products
while navigating the true realities of operating and traversing regulated markets.
Now that doesn't mean that everything has to be hard-regulated, it's just that, hey,
you're thinking about the fact that your users are in regulated markets, so there are certain
things you just have to navigate.
And so we really build the underlying infrastructure that can address all those problems.
What are the use cases you'd isolate there where you think Predicate becomes pretty immediately
valuable?
The ones that we've seen so far, and I think this will continue evolving as the industry
evolves, but the ones that we've seen very immediately are in the RWA space.
So real-world assets, how do you set programmatic rules for what types of assets can flow into
an RWA product, such as a yield product?
So stablecoin requirements, I think you're going to see a lot of requirements as it relates
to Genius and Stable in the United States.
Singapore has also passed a law, and you, of course, have Mika in Europe, but you're
going to have requirements, particularly around AML, anti-money laundering, and counterterrorism
for stablecoin issuers, just because that's how it's being articulated, and you're having
organizations that are operating stablecoin companies in the United States, and they want
to think about, hey, we want the stablecoin to be used by fintechs, businesses, people
in these markets, and so as a result, you're going to have AML requirements here.
So predicate, we've been looking at a lot of those use cases.
Another big one has been privacy, just because privacy just has to have some type of minimal
requirements, and I don't think actually KYC is the right solution for privacy.
I think it just creates all these opportunities for data leaks and things like that, but you
do need to have some semblance of clean liquidity and clean usage of privacy, and so how can
we actually solve for that?
So that's another big use case for us.
And then I think over time, you're just going to see other use cases around vaults and
dex pools and things like that, where we've been getting a good bit of activity.
For example, we're doing a lot of work with Paxos on liquidity pools that involve Uniswap.
So I would say stables, RWAs, liquidity pools that are interfacing with regulated organizations,
and privacy.
So does a company that wants to do KYC or AML in a seamless way or want to increase
the level of privacy, do they reach out to you?
Or how do these engagements happen, and what do they look like?
We do no real marketing, and this is intentional.
Our whole approach at the moment has been word of mouth and education, because we think
that's the best way to validate a need before doing an aggressive marketing push.
The other thing we won't do, I think a lot of crypto projects will do this as infrastructure,
they will pay organizations to use their technology.
We won't do that.
The whole idea here is that you use our tech, you integrate it, you build on it.
The way we get reach out is usually, you know, a different group is already using us, and
so they'll hear about it.
Or it's just in our conversation, and the way we take our BD is just, look, we just
want to understand what you're trying to solve for, and then we'll go from there, right?
So what is the AML problem that you're trying to solve for?
What is the KYC problem you're trying to solve for?
Just what are you trying to do?
And then if we can solve for that, great.
We'll work with you, and we can do kind of the way we've taken so far is a white glove
approach.
And if it doesn't, we'll say, we're happy to recommend other solutions if it doesn't
make sense for us, or say, hey, look, you're trying to solve something that just our technology
doesn't do.
But it's all about, in this case, building trust, right?
And it's about building something that is actually just valuable and useful for an organization.
If not, then we'll say, look, it's not worth our time, it's not worth your time either
on this.
And so it's just having a very, very good understanding of what that organization is
trying to solve for.
There's probably a self-selection bias, but I imagine there's a varying degree to which
companies in the crypto space want to engage with the kinds of services that you're offering
whether it be around compliance, privacy, or just things that bolster the validity of
these transactions.
100%.
It is usually organizations that are either already on day one saying, oh, we have to
think about the markets that we're operating and the users that we're talking to.
Or it's your larger projects, right, who are like, we are scaling.
And so as we're scaling, we have to be more sophisticated, because we are actually thinking
about real capital.
We're not thinking about only small amounts of capital anymore.
We are thinking about really very real volume.
It ends up being those organizations.
Which ones do you think this moves the needle for the most?
Or who are the adopters of what you guys have created?
So a few examples of this on privacy, someone like Alio, where for them, we are critical
infrastructure for Alio to operate.
They passed a governance proposal saying that they need various types of requirements for
who can bridge into the Alio blockchain.
And this was a governance proposal, not even something set by their labs entity.
And it's because they're saying that for us to exist, for us to ensure that we can even
build what we want on our infrastructure, we need something like Predicate in place.
So all of Alio's interop uses Predicate.
Another different use case in the RWA space is someone like Plume.
Plume's a really interesting one, because they built this RWA-oriented L2.
I see it almost like a fintech platform, right, where you're saying, how do you have this
mix of traditional capital as well as crypto capital intersect with one another?
But you're trying to create almost like a curated platform for that entire thing.
So for Plume Nest, which is our vault system that provides yield, and the yield comes from
different types of tokenized assets, treasuries, private credit, those kinds of things.
Predicate was needed there.
It wasn't about enforcing KYC requirements.
It's about enforcing flow of funds requirements, because you can't have assets originating
from high-risk users, users that have been involved in sanctioned activities, terrorist
financing, human trafficking, all of those things.
The requirement here was not for KYC, but you need to have some view of assurance that
the liquidity coming in is not tied to malicious actors.
And so that's a really, really great use for Predicate, because all this happens while
the user has no idea what's happening on the background.
All they're doing is they're going and depositing funds.
Predicate is operating on the background for them.
So that was one in which I remember we basically had to be live and ready for Nest to go live.
And then a different one entirely is our work with Paxos.
So we build Uniswap infrastructure that allows you to set programmatic rules for who can
LP or swap.
In the case of Paxos, regulated financial institution that's registered in New York,
in ADGM, in Singapore, now recently Europe, all these different places.
For their specific asset, Lyft Dollar, which is a yield-bearing asset, they can't sell
to certain customers.
It's a yield-bearing asset.
So to the United States, that is a money market fund, essentially.
So Wyatt, for you and I sitting here, we should not actually be able to go and get direct
access to USDL.
Now, if it happens on secondary market, fine, but on primary market, you can't have that.
And so for Paxos' supply liquidity for this, they need to actually enforce some geolocation
requirements as well as AML-CFT requirements for this.
And so if to do that, they can actually use our predicate infrastructure that uses Uniswap.
So that's another use case for them as they're saying, hey, we want to build the usage of
USDL and tie more financial products to this.
They need to have some amount of control over that.
So all of these are really critical use cases for these organizations as they're looking
to fundamentally scale.
It's helpful to frame what it looks like in practice.
Can you explain what's happening with the technology that you guys are enabling in the
background?
Yeah.
So let's use the Plume Nest example for simplicity.
So the user connects their wallet and they're going to make a deposit.
Before they can make a deposit, essentially a call is made to the predicate network.
In this case, the Plume team has set a requirement that uses a few different data providers and
is checking for associations to sanction addresses, so not just sanctioned addresses, but any
immediate relationship, associations to terrorist financing, human trafficking, major instances
of fraud, child sexual exploitation, all these different things.
Predicate network essentially then leverages different data providers as selected by Plume.
And what happens is they'll check that address and then the predicate network then issues
a signature.
All of this is sub-second latency.
So for the user, when they go and hit submit on their transaction, you know how like on
your metamask or whatever shows all this like text.
Within that is a signature embedded in the transaction object and that signature is from
the predicate network.
So when you hit submit, the transaction only goes through and gets accepted by the smart
contract because it has a signature from the predicate network.
If you try to go and submit a transaction to the smart contract without a predicate
signature, you will not be able to actually submit the transaction.
The transaction gets rejected.
So the general process is you have to receive a signature from the predicate network.
When you submit, signature is included.
So when you submit, you have a signature there.
The smart contract accepts the transaction and then the signature is verified by our
smart contract to say, okay, cool, this is actually coming from the predicate network
and not someone else trying to spoof our create a fake signature here.
It's almost like a multi-signature where you need a signatory.
It's like a traditional finance legal sign off in a way.
It's almost like a notary service, but yeah, that's right.
And it's all about getting a signature on the back end.
What are some of the more creative uses?
Because I think the compliance ones are probably more intuitive, but I imagine you guys can
do a lot of more creative things around looking into user wallets potentially or looking at
thresholds that someone might want to meet to enable someone to make a specific transaction
if you look at like where something like airdrops could go.
Other things that we can do that starts getting interesting are you can have different forms
of rate limits or volume based things.
Predicate we can use any type of historical on-chain or off-chain data.
So this goes into the world of compute as well.
So you can look at how much has a user interacted with a certain system and that can inform
how much they can deposit or where they can even deposit in the first place.
You start going to the world of market integrity as well.
So think of like how much capital can flow into a system when we start looking at the
world of market makers and liquidity pools.
So if you're like, okay, cool, this asset is not very liquid.
We have to actually set some type of controls to ensure that you don't have some massive
incident that causes a token price to drop dramatically.
You can enforce those kinds of requirements as well.
I think civil resistance is another big one.
We've talked a lot around AI agent guardrails as well.
I think AI agents still are going to take time for on-chain activity.
To be honest, we haven't seen any like massive true use cases of, oh, AI agent control my
transaction flow and go and execute transactions for me.
But you can use predicate to actually set guardrails for that AI agent and say, okay,
great, you should not be interacting with a contract that's going to drain my wallet.
And so let's set some parameters there or don't spend all my money within a day.
Like at least extend this out.
I don't care how lucrative the yield looks like to you.
Don't blow it all in one.
So you can actually set AI agent guardrails as well.
So that's like another interesting use case that predicate can be used for all with our
same design.
Or so that you don't get the mark injuries in use case where your agent suddenly spins
up a meme coin.
Yeah, that's right.
Exactly.
Or even, I mean, we've talked about like, don't spin up a meme coin and then market
it and then be like, oh yeah, you should buy this coin and now all your other AI agents
are looking at it as well.
You can set guardrails for these kinds of things.
I think of that as like a little bit more like future oriented.
But the whole point of the way we design Predicate is that it should be both relevant today as
well as the ability to evolve over time to meet future needs.
Where do you think Predicate stands in relation to the tokenization that we're seeing of traditional
financial markets, which is happening increasingly?
It's timely because Robinhood yesterday announced some of their tokenized markets.
It seems like you guys would sit squarely in the potential integration stack there.
Yes.
The ways we can sit, it really comes down to how those systems are built.
So take a Robinhood L2 or even a Deutsche Bank L2.
In that case, they're generally creating these KY seed environments.
Now the other thing is you're going to have as an L2 ability to bridge into those L2s.
So how do you set the requirements for who can bridge in?
Because they're not coming straight from an on ramping through Robinhood, you're coming
from other sites.
So how do you set those requirements?
That's something that we're actually really well designed for.
We work with Layer 0 and Axelor on interop policies.
The other one is for all of these security types of assets, they have transfer requirements
and things like that baked into the asset, but then you also will have liquidity pools
for this.
And so then the question is how do you actually enforce your requirements to the liquidity
pools themselves?
That's something that Predicate can be used for.
So you can actually set the requirements there.
So that way you have requirements for the liquidity pools and then when you have a user
who picks up the asset, there's restrictions for transfer and all of those things.
For example, one thing we've been starting to work with, kind of a traditional asset
management fund, they have their tokenized assets on chain and they're on a few different
chains and they have a soul bound identity.
One question they've had is, OK, so we have this liquidity that's sitting on a few different
chains, but if I'm a user on Ethereum, how can I go and access a yield that's sitting
on this other chain, even though I have a soul bound identity?
So our system actually can facilitate that.
You need to be able to have those checks for those liquidity pools on other chains.
That's where Predicate is really well designed because as a user, you can only then access
a pool if you receive a signature from the Predicate network.
This gets down to the question a little bit of do stable coins trade on Solana or Ethereum
or do they trade on like stable plasma, Canton, one of these new stable coin chains?
Do you view Predicate's technology as being a partial part of a Solana ecosystem where
you are catering to the cleaner, more compliant or even just more thought out transactions?
Or do you see a future state where there's a lot of volume on a certain chain, maybe
a future chain and you guys are a part of every transaction on that chain?
It could go either way here.
I think when it comes to a Solana or an Ethereum or more traditional L2, I think you're going
to have a world of both markets on those chains that are more tied towards traditional markets
that interface and interact with users in regulated markets.
And then I think you'll have other aspects in that chain that will be more black market,
gray market.
So we'll kind of be the ones who are honing in a bit more on that regulated market and
potentially some of those gray market areas as well, right?
Because at the end, we are able to facilitate the intersection of those markets.
Then you're building policy networks is where we end up going.
We can talk about that in a little bit.
On your traditional chains, we can help curate user technology to enable those markets.
Then you have these more custom L1s or L2s.
In that case, either they can build their own system, ground up themselves, or they
can use predicates technology within those systems to be able to enforce their requirements
more holistically across the chain.
It really just depends on what are their requirements and what are they trying to solve for.
We remain fully agnostic.
So again, this is why you build something that is generalizable and we can kind of see
where the market goes.
But the way I see it is that on your traditional chains, you're going to have like a continuum
of different markets.
And on some of these other custom L1s and L2s, you might not have that same type of
continuum.
But in both cases, our tech can be used.
To the policy network point you made, what do you view as being the end game there?
At the end of the day, what we really see is there's some lessons here from Web2.
If I send you money and you're in Canada, that payment happens really quickly and happens
at a pretty low cost.
You can use Wwise or you can even do a bank transfer.
If I send money from here to, let's say, South Africa or India, it's a lot more expensive.
The reason why is there's actually a lot more financial controls and you don't have the
same data sharing types of agreements.
And a lot of this comes down to custodian banks.
Custodian banks are the ones who facilitate transactions internationally.
They just don't have the same coverage.
And a big reason for that is actually the AML component.
What that means is you can actually create aligned policies across groups.
And we've seen that for custodian banks, we've seen that with FATF, we've seen that with
DTCC and clearing houses, all of those things.
All of these are aligned.
You're basically creating financial networks and policy networks here.
So for Predicate, where we started going from a policy network standpoint is, you know,
you've done a check on one place, right?
Let's say your stablecoin is already kind of deemed as like some form of like compliant
because it is in the US.
And then you want to go and deposit into a vault system that's also in the US.
You may not actually need to do a policy check in both cases.
You only need to do it once because you already know that that stablecoin is checked for some
period of time.
You'll have to do it again at some other point in time, but the idea is you've already done
it once.
So what that means is it starts reducing overhead or you actually don't have to do the same
amount of checks every single instance because you're creating a policy network across systems.
And then the way we see it is that KYC was kind of one approach to that.
And it's like, oh, you can create this KYC network and now you have all these users and
those things.
But I think KYC is a bit of a hammer when a scalpel is needed for most of these types
of requirements.
And so then you're actually what we envision as a continuum of different types of requirements.
If that's the case, we can actually think about the alignment and the overlapping requirements
across all of these.
And you can think about how transaction flows across blockchains and across networks.
All that means that, you know, once you're in the predicate network for policy checks,
you have the ability to tap into liquidity in other places, assuming your policy overlaps
with them.
All of that can be routed and be programmatic.
That seems really compatible with some of these consortium models, too, where you want
to establish a standard that goes beyond a siloed network or a siloed closed end system
of like one company or one institution.
That's right.
And that's exactly how financial systems have operated for the entire time that we know
of financial institutions.
But the great part here in blockchain technology is that can be much more programmatic.
It's not KYC based.
It's just programmatic rule based off of a number of different holistic needs that different
financial institutions and different organizations and users all need.
You have a background in politics to some degree, like some of the folks from our firm.
So I want to ask some larger picture questions, I guess.
What happens to cash in this outcome?
I feel as though it seems almost non-intuitive that the government would continue to allow
cash to exist unless it's something that is just so staunchly defended by people in a
context where you have traditional financial transactions which have our embedded financial
system, which have the corresponding banking system, and now you guys are making on-chain
transactions also much more compliant and basically giving thresholds and cash transactions
seem like they're going to become the de facto illicit way of moving currency around.
I mean, if I remember correctly, the usage of cash is continuing to go down.
At some point in time, maybe we stop using cash entirely.
But I think then there's just an infrastructure question, too, across these different countries.
Not just, I mean, in the United States, but also many countries of do you have sufficient
access to digital infrastructure so that you don't need printed money?
The US still doesn't have complete 100% penetration of internet, which is crazy, but we should
keep that in mind that even the United States doesn't.
I think some Asian countries have the highest.
Now the stablecoin issuers like Circle, I think, are trying to say that, oh, we are
the digital dollar, right?
And so you don't need to launch, for example, a CBDC, which has been the other question
that government could launch a CBDC.
Now you've essentially shifted from just pure cash to a digital currency.
Europe has spent a lot of time thinking about this.
China, of course, has a CBDC.
The United States is still probably grappling with that question.
But I think the way that, at least my view is that you're going to have digital currencies
that are issued by private entities, i.e. a Circle or a Tether.
Now you will have some countries that will have a CBDC and say, OK, we also have our
digital currency and your private money would be linked to that.
Then I think you might have certain countries that just say, we're not going to have a CBDC.
You can use digital money, private digital money, if you want, you can use that.
Otherwise, you can have more digital money that is not blockchain based.
That's at least the world I see.
So it's going to be you'll still have cash for some time.
Some countries might have a CBDC.
If not, they will still have digital money that is not blockchain based.
And then you'll have private money that is digital currency based.
And in that scenario, there are certain stablecoins that trade on certain chains that I imagine
will not be as readily embedded with predicates, transaction policies.
Do you think those eventually become heavily regulated in favor of those that accept policies
as standards?
Or do you think there will be a lag there?
Because a lot of the stablecoin volume that we've looked at, I would say, is probably
in that camp that they won't be embedding these policies.
I think that's the state that we've been in so far.
And I think that's also a factor of crypto not really being regulated well.
If we want blockchains to become the global financial settlement system, presumably then
more and more of that volume is happening in normal regulated markets and capital markets
just as a share of everything else.
Right now, I would say if you want to do a very compliant transaction, you're probably
not going to use crypto.
It's just something you're fundamentally not going to do.
And if you're a business in the United States, you're going to take the regulated pathways
to use stablecoins.
Most of stablecoin usage is not really in the United States, it's in emerging markets
regardless.
So in that case, I think you will continue having the usage of stablecoins in markets
that aren't fully regulated.
And that's fine.
That's great.
But I think you're also going to have more and more usage of stablecoins in regulated
markets over time because that is where at least if we want blockchains to become a global
financial settlement system, we have to have that.
If not, we're going to perpetually sit within this world of, great, we've basically built
a gray market.
That's going to be the extent of what we built.
I don't think that realizes the full extent of the technology or the money and time that
we spent into building all of this, not just for Predicate, but I would say the industry
as a whole.
How do you look at the way that blockchains will hopefully continue to serve people who
maybe can't satisfy certain policy thresholds that might be expectations of large financial
institutions or companies in a world where we're going to have displaced people and you
have people who might not have traditional bank accounts who would love to hold JP Morgan
back stablecoin granted they live thousands of miles away.
This is a really good question.
And I should also say, like my background, I've also spent time working on financial
inclusion before Predicate, even before I entered crypto.
So like one of my big reasons for entering crypto was, hey, the traditional financial
services system actually doesn't service many people and it's not incentivized to do so.
There's no real financial or monetary reason that they need to.
And that's across globally.
That's not in any one specific market.
I think that's holistically across the board.
This is where I also believe that blockchains are built really well for this in that you
should have a holistic set of different markets and products.
So if you are someone who is actually not able to access a traditional bank account,
you shouldn't be blocked from financial services.
And that's the way the current world operates.
It actually should be that you have other options as well.
And maybe they are gray markets, that's fine.
But the tooling for that and the development of that really does matter.
And I would say particularly in emerging markets where you don't necessarily have all the financial
infrastructure.
And so you should be able to have access to other resources and tools to be able to use.
Maybe you don't need all the same things in the United States.
That being said, actually, there's plenty of people in the United States who also don't
have complete access to financial systems.
But you need a holistic set of market options.
Right now you don't.
And we've essentially gate kept that entire market entirely.
Ideally, we have a continuum of different things.
This is also why from a Predicate standpoint, I don't think that KYC is the answer for all
of this, because there's plenty of people who don't have an ID.
That doesn't mean that you shouldn't be able to bank them or you shouldn't be able to provide
financial services.
There's just other needs that you should be able to check for, right?
If I'm going to do a financial transaction with someone and even if I have a corner shop,
if I have a corner store and I'm taking money from someone or if I'm a person going and
buying from a corner store, I'm not going and doing KYC of the person to say, oh, I'm
going to buy Coke from you.
All I need to know really at the end is like, is this stolen goods?
If it's so, then I might not go there for my own personal reasons.
But I'm not KYC-ing everyone.
And so I think in that case, what I really see is that you're going to have traditional
capital markets, regulated businesses, users depending on what you need to do.
But then there are many cases in which you actually don't need all of these different
pieces and we should envision a world of a full continuum and a holistic set of different
really user requirements.
This reminds me of Economics 101 a little bit.
You guys are trying to ensure that transactions that should occur in a perfect market economy
do occur.
Whereas otherwise, they either couldn't or shouldn't.
Exactly.
And again, this is why it said, I think my view was always that pure KYC is the wrong
way to do it because in that case, you're trying to put everyone into the same bucket.
That's not how a market works.
That is an inefficient market in my mind.
Instead, there are different requirements, different needs across different products,
different users, different countries, all of those different things.
And we should actually envision that type of market because we have such a unique opportunity
to actually build that programmatically ground up, whereas you could not do that before.
And you can't do that in Web 2 Rails.
What are your views on where Bitcoin evolves to in the wake of this?
And I say that because Bitcoin on its base blockchain is not geared towards integrating
predicates or being composable.
So do you think this is threatening to Bitcoin?
Do you think Bitcoin, I see a world where maybe it just sits sort of like deposits and
is almost immobile on the main chain and then it's moving around in other places that
can have this embedded security?
But what are your views on that?
We haven't dove as heavily into Bitcoin just from a bandwidth standpoint.
I will say we've had some Bitcoin projects who've reached out to us, but more for them
because they're thinking about building structured products that might sit on an L2 or some type
of side chain.
And in that case, it's because they're then targeting large holders of Bitcoin.
We're like, okay, great, we're creating vault systems and things like that.
Bitcoin does have sanctioned addresses and all of those things, and they have malicious
actors as well.
So if I'm a business in the United States and I'm saying, okay, great, let me put some
of my Bitcoin to work with these structured products and structured vaults, they'll have
some questions around co-mingling of funds and things like that.
That's the way I see it.
But otherwise, you hold Bitcoin and then if you want to earn additional yield, then you
go and turn to different financial products.
These are all financial products that are on chain, so if I'm going to go and use a
financial product on chain, there's going to be certain requirements.
Is there any analogous to what you guys have built that you think is an unlock for on chain
finance?
Because presumably, you'll hopefully be enabling the build out of something like an interest
bearing stable coins and other products to exist in a way where the rules or policies
behind it become more streamlined.
I'd love to hear about the categories that you're excited about and then sort of what
else is necessary to make the realities that you guys are trying to make real happen.
So your question here is new emerging products that we're excited by that we think that Predicate
can fit in really well.
And what else is needed?
I still think securities markets over time are interesting, not just in the form of tokenized
stocks, but I think the holistic set of structured financial products that are on chain, right?
Yield bearing assets that are on chain that are able to take advantage of blockchain programmability
and composability to deliver yield in a much more efficient manner that is also like a
higher yield.
That to me is really interesting.
I think we're going to see a lot more work around that.
I think there's still a lot to be done on privacy, to be honest.
Privacy is one of those things that there's been a lot of thinking on, a lot of research.
It hasn't gotten product market fit.
But I do think privacy is going to matter for a lot of these pieces as we move forward
in the long term.
Yield bearing stables, not possible yet still from a regulated standpoint.
So MECA doesn't allow for yield bearing stables, Genius and Stable in the US also will not
allow for yield bearing stables.
I think over time, it just comes down to a user experience standpoint and having yield
bearing stables to me just makes way more sense than just holding a flat stable.
So that to me is really interesting.
So let me start with those.
I think for let's say the privacy component, I think the thing that still has to really
be sorted out are true use cases of it.
It seems like payments might be a good angle there, but I'm not going to opine on like
what is the best go to market strategy for privacy.
If I had that, I would probably be working on a privacy protocol as well.
But I think those questions around where is the adoption happen?
How do you bootstrap that activity?
How do you ensure that it's able to kind of meet also align with the liquidity across
other places?
You almost have this fragmentation right between public and private.
So either you're saying that everything has to shift to private or you're able to intersect
those things better.
Those are tools that need to be in place.
For a yield bearing stable, the technology is there.
I think that's the real blocker is regulation at the moment.
And then securities markets.
This one's interesting because you have different thinking around how do you have acid based
requirements in the technology stack.
So that's fine.
How do you start creating liquidity pools as well?
I think the real unlock will then be one, how do you get sufficient adoption of it?
I'm very curious to see how Robinhood does it because they have so many users.
And then from there, how do you wrap that in with additional composable products?
I think that's the unlock there, but we're not quite there yet.
Who would you like to speak with in general of anyone that you could be talking to that
you would be creating policies for for their on-chain transactions or for their integrations?
Top the list of someone we have not spoken to would be Robinhood.
We have a generally a pretty good network, so I think we've talked to many people that
we do want to talk to.
I would say Robinhood is very high up on the list because I want to understand that.
And then the other one would be more understanding what Stripe is thinking about for their future
because they made acquisitions recently, right?
So what are they thinking about?
How does digital assets actually fit into their overall roadmap and their plan?
So that's the second one.
And then the third one would be someone like a Fidelity.
This is more the TradFight world, right?
And so what are they thinking about?
How do they see their participation?
What are the things that they envision to deploy actually on-chain versus keep an arm's
length away?
So it's understanding when do they fully dive in and what are those different things that
they're anticipating?
I'll leave you with a final question I want your view on, but what's your perception on
timeline when it comes to some of the use cases?
You mentioned securities or other assets, yield-bearing assets.
Probably with an eye towards a market structure bill, I imagine.
I'm curious if that's even how most of the partners that you guys are talking to are
thinking about it.
Sort of post-market structure.
Well, here's what we can do if they're still in their eyes ambiguity.
How long do you think that takes and what does the step function look like to get there?
Some of it happens through market structure, but even then market structure will then basically
When Congress passes market structure, it then actually goes to the different regulators.
The regulatory bodies then start defining specific rules and policies for all the different
pieces and market structure gives a high level overview.
Market structure is like, here's who's responsible.
It's the SEC for this.
It's a CFTC for this.
But then the SEC and the CFTC have to go and make more explicit their position and their
rules.
So it still has to sort of trickle down.
As a result, I think that for these more securities types of products in the United States, my
hunt should be at least another year or two before you have really, really good clarity.
But I think the cool part right now is you see folks like SuperState and Solana Policy
Institute submitting proposals to the SEC to go ahead and start doing some of this work
with the sandbox and approval from the SEC.
There's actually a really good opportunity for that.
So we can front run some of that now to basically start putting these into place.
Now the question is, is when does all that capital actually come on, Shane?
I would still say maybe my hunt should be at least another two years, if not longer
for complete adoption.
And it seems like maybe stable points are the first way to at least get more meaningful
capital flow.
Well, we'll have to have you back in two years then to check on where we landed.
Maybe you'll be sooner, cautiously optimistic and sooner.
Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To find out more about Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc.
To listen to all of our podcast episodes, please go to onthebrink-podcast.com or just
click on the tab in our website.
Thanks for listening.
