TITLE: RockSolid DeFi Vaults and Yield Strategies with Ben Ward and Steve Pak [Castle Island Ventures]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_RockSolid_-_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
Today, I sat down with Ben Ward and Steve Pak, founders of RockSolid protocol.
RockSolid is a DeFi application that enables users to deposit into vaults and earn yield on assets,
with a target focus on Rocketpool's RE and other Ethereum ecosystem assets.
Castle Island is an investor in RockSolid and it was a pleasure to discuss what lies ahead for
the protocol with Ben and Steve. I hope you enjoy our conversation.
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners at Castle Island Ventures. All of these expressed by them
or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions and do not reflect the opinions of
Castle Island Ventures. Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets discussed in
this podcast. You should not treat any opinion expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific
inducement to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an
expression of their personal opinion. This podcast is for informational purposes only.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
the two mortgage giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing. You print a couple trillion dollars and all
of a sudden people start to worry. So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin,
Bitcoin. Ben and Steve, pleasure to have you guys on our first time doing the podcast together. So
appreciate you joining. Told you to be here. Awesome to be here. I want to kick off. Congratulations.
You guys raised $3 million, announced it recently. We lad are excited to partner with you guys.
Can you speak to what is Rock Solid and why does it exist? What's the origin? Rock Solid is a single
click experience to access the best of DeFi and earn rewards on your crypto assets. The most common
way this is referred to is the Liquid Vault, so our Liquid Vault platform. And yeah, we're launching
now and with the Rocker Pool protocol. So we're the official Liquid Vault for Rocker Pool.
Yeah, that's really the origin story, actually. To understand sort of where Rock Solid
Vaults came from, it's really Rocker Pool. So I was a Rocker Pool node operator. For those who
don't know, Rocker Pool is a decentralized liquid staking protocol. So people stake ETH and they get
a token in return and then node operators come along, they contribute some ETH,
and they run the validators for Ethereum. And I'm an Ethereum, I don't know if I'd say maxi,
but definitely a supporter. A supporter, yeah. Strong supporter. One of the really crucial things
is that Ethereum is this credibly neutral decentralized L1. And the only way that happens
is when you have a distribution of stake. So you know that like a single part of your entity can't
rewrite history. And Rocker Pool is a huge part of that. And that's partly what got me into it.
Also, it's better economics as a node operator. And so I was part of this community. And by the
way, go join the Rocker Pool Discord. It's insanity in a good way. And so yeah, I was running a node
for Rocker Pool. And I really got the feeling that Rocker Pool was, for a while there, losing
against Lido. And if you might remember, a few years ago, Lido was getting up to this 33% of
stake. And that was a big deal. And so I kind of started to look at what would be better? Like,
how should we compete against Lido? And I was really, at the time, focused on APR. That was
one difference. There was a slightly lower APR. And that's when I got talking to Ben about this.
So we were working together. And we really just started to dig in what drives the LST market.
And what we actually found was it wasn't so much the APR. It was actually more about the
utility of LSTs in DeFi. Because the core of a lot of DeFi out there is really the base return
is almost the staking rewards on Ethereum. And so that's where it starts. And then it's composed
and built upon and leveraged and whatever else. But that's where it starts. And so that's where
Ben and I started to really understand that actually it's the DeFi integration and the
utility of an LST that drives it. And so we started to explore that space much more. And
that led us to look at things like ETH and EtherFi and look at what Lido did.
And what we realized is that that's what Rocketpool was missing. It didn't have that
the level of integration or these single-click experience where it's like,
I'm an RE folder. What can I do with this? Where can I put this to earn better returns?
And just to make it super clear, literally you could watch every day on the Rocketpool
Discord someone come in and say, I just learned about the project. I love it. I love what you
guys are doing. What can I do with this in DeFi? And our answer as a community was,
oh, there's this spreadsheet called Rfield DeFi. Go take a look. So it was kind of like,
okay, we can do better. We can do better than that. That's where this journey started.
Yeah. I think for people listening who might be familiar or might be less familiar with some of
these DeFi markets, it's like a pretty compelling offering because what you can essentially do with
these LST or liquid staking token assets is you can own an Ethereum liquid staking token,
which earns a native yield of a few percent. And then you can borrow, let's say USDC off of it.
And so you maintain the underlying ETH exposure, your earning yield on your ETH,
which almost offsets your borrow rate for the USDC. So it's very attractive naturally.
I'm curious how you guys see the landscape of offerings for, let's say LIDO. What were you
able to do with LIDO tokens? Is it that instance I just mentioned? And what is most important to
people who are these liquid staking token holders or to yield token holders in general?
Yeah, I think the most important thing is, as Steve said, it's about integrations. It's about
what you can do with the token. And as you just said, Wyatt, like the whole value prop there is
having this thing that you can then go and take and do other stuff with in other places.
And if you can't do that other stuff in other places, then that LST product kind of isn't
serving its core use case. And so really having that asset being integrated in lots of places,
different DeFi protocols that you can use it on, borrow land, leverage, all this sort of stuff.
I guess a new kind of wave of use cases that emerged about 12 months ago or 18 months ago
with these points campaigns and liquidity and incentive farming. And so it's, oh, new hyped
L1 is launching or new hyped L2 is launching. They offer these points and incentives to deposit
assets to see liquidity in their ecosystem. As an LST holder, you want the LST that you're holding
being incentivized in that ecosystem. And what we saw was that often it was kind of LIDO's state
DEATH and maybe ETHify's EETH and make it ETH, wrapped ETH. And that was kind of it that was
being accepted in these campaigns because they were the biggest and they were doing the best BD,
frankly. And so what we wanted to see was we love the rockable community. We think our ETH is a
great asset. It's the most credibly neutral. It's the most decentralized of all the LSTs.
And so we wanted to see our ETH kind of participating in that party, if that makes sense.
You touched on a little bit, but I was curious why in your view, LIDO was the one that got this
headstart when it came to integrations and when it came to having these markets exist elsewhere.
Interestingly, I think it's a cultural thing. Having been in Rockapool for a while, it is a
group of very motivated, very smart, very Ethereum-aligned people that actually came
together and formed this DAO and operated like one of the very few DAOs that actually operates
like a DAO. Things are voted on according to whether you are staking the token. And there is
a lot of focus and energy on the technology, on the decentralization, on supporting Ethereum.
I don't think the core team would mind saying this. There's not the same energy on the core
team or the DAO. It just wasn't the culture of the community. And that's what makes it actually
very strong in some ways, because you know that that's what the focus is. It's being a
decentralized LST. But ultimately, I think we've learned as a community that this defile layer
is critical. Your asset needs to be integrated everywhere. And for that, you need some BD.
So yeah, concentrating, pooling your assets in a place where you can enable a team like ours
and our partners to go and strike deals and improve integration, that's what's needed.
So I think it was just a focus thing, a culture and a focus early on,
but nothing that can't actually quickly be rectified.
Maybe the other thing I'd add to that is Rockapool is one of these OG projects, as Steve said,
that really does live and breathe decentralization and lives the values that we're all supposed to
care about. But also, as a result of that, and because they're an older,
vintager project, they kind of emerged before this absolute mega-raise, money bazooka style,
VC funded sort of project started in that kind of later vintage. And so what that means is,
and I think of a project like EtherFi, for example, and I think EtherFi are great,
they're doing great work, but they have a money bazooka that they can spray around
and sort of provide incentives to get their asset integrated. Rockapool doesn't have that.
Because it's just fundamentally a different model. So yeah, I think that really does make
a difference when it comes to integrations. So you have this almost $3 billion pool of
not heavily utilized underlying theorem, it's ARIES, but how do you guys interact or exist
in the context of that community, to your point, Steve? How do you insert yourselves?
Do you become like an external BD arm, or what's your role in your view?
That's a really interesting one. There's no official thing, right? That's one of the
beauties of crypto. We can't force people to deposit their ARIES into their vault,
but we can show a future that's possible. We're kind of known in the community anyway, just as
being node operators, I've been part of just personally a bunch of tokenomics discussions,
I've met a lot of the community in person at events, et cetera. So it helps, that helps,
but yeah, we're there as not official in terms of the protocol. There's nothing in the protocol
that makes our vault special, but yeah, we do have the endorsement of the core team that
this is the vault for ARIES. We have the pitch, and the pitch is that you can deposit
your ARIES here. And we, in partnership with our partners, we have two great partners, by the way,
Lagoon Finance for our smart contract architecture and Trulip for capital,
as our asset manager, also known as curator. We together can take this ARIES and both deploy it
in the best risk-optimized way that exists today. So looking at what exists on MainNet,
on L2 today, for these things we talked about, borrow land opportunities, incentive campaigns,
could be liquidity provisioning, leverage looping, and doing that in a way that's responsive to
funding rates as incentives move, that we move with the market. So there's the pitch of how we
can deploy assets today, but also that if you value what we're talking about of seeing ARIES
better integrated to make it stronger, put your ARIES here as a way to support the ecosystem,
because we're going to be out there, we already are out there, negotiating to have ARIES integrated.
Like you want ARIES? New chain, new protocol? Create a pool for it, create incentives for it.
And here it is. It's really just messaging the community that we think this is the best place to
put your ARIES. Yeah, no, I like the messaging. It's interesting that you guys have spent this
time with the community. You've got to know people a little bit. I think in terms of traditional
finance, if you have a pension fund, you have a general idea of where the capital comes from.
You could say the same thing about an endowment. Again, $3 billion of ARIES, like who are these
people? Where is it coming from? How would you characterize them?
It's a funny question, because again, due to the truly decentralized nature of the Rockapool
community and the ARIE community, it's not actually easy to answer that question. I mean,
you can do on chain analytics and you can see what wallet addresses the ARIE is sitting in,
and there's a bunch of exchanges, a bunch of DeFi protocols, but there's also a lot of
undoxed wallets, probably liquid funds, probably early Ethereum people, but it's not clear with
other assets, it's possible to just pick up the phone and talk to the LIDAR core team and say,
hey, okay, put us in touch with the top 20 state deep holders. It's kind of not possible with
Rockapool because it is this anonymous decentralized community, which is cool,
cool for all the reasons that we said, because it is actually living the values that we're all
supposed to believe in. It makes the sort of BD and go to market challenge a little bit harder,
but that's why we're trying to sort of demonstrate to the community and to the
protocol, like this is the value that we're bringing to ARIE, and so we just need to win
those customers, so to speak, organically by having a good product, which is kind of what
a business should be. Instead of a lot of the shenanigans that you see in crypto around, you
know, incentives and private TVL deals and stuff like that, like we're just putting a product out
to the market and engaging the community. And I mean, I think having the endorsement of the
core team helps with that. Having the distribution, you know, one thing I guess we haven't
explicitly mentioned yet is that we're integrated into the Rockapool front end,
we're integrated into the Rockapool staking flow. So there'll be opportunities for organic
customer acquisition that way. So yeah, they're kind of the go-to-market pillars we're leaning on.
It's actually terrifying as a product guy, right? Like first time founder, it's like build it and
they will come. Second time founder, it's like, what is the exact problem for the exact customer
I'm going to solve and solve that? He asked me what our ideal customer profile is. They're like,
they're there, right? There's $3 billion over there. And we do, we have some insights, but just
big funny anecdote, like there was a time when ARIE was at risk of being delisted. I think it was
as collateral for Dai, so like being delisted from Maker. And someone just posted this in one of the
many channels on the Rockapool discord and like it was 20 million ARIE was minted like five minutes
later. So it's like, it's out there. To your point, it wouldn't exist if that wasn't the ethos,
right? Like that's what's attracted this community. It's like a vibrant discord or subreddit,
except in terms of capital and people have been attracted to it because of the ethos.
Yeah. I think there's a bunch of Ethereum OGs in there as well. You know, people like ICO
evaluate the values there. And are those people, or say the community in general,
are they supportive of what you guys are doing? So far, yes. I don't doubt there will be a few
folks in the community who will point out, oh, hold on, there are some centralized aspects to this.
Like when there's a new strategy proposed, for example, like should the vault deploy to ARIE?
Like that's not something that's DAO driven, right? That's something that's driven internally.
There'll be folks who are like, no, I only do full decentralization maximum. And that's great.
But that's, I think, you know, the minority. For most people, they can see like ARIE is the
absolute decentralized core, like to remain strong needs this like defile layer. And actually,
that defile layer is more efficiently run with some trade-offs, like still a smart contract.
You can look at the code. You can see the fees are transparent. The wallet addresses are
transparent. You can see how everything is deployed, but there are some centralization
aspects in terms of the strategy. And changing gears a little bit, let's talk about the vaults
and the vaults you guys have, and maybe vaults more generally. I guess to start, the term gets
thrown a lot. It's one of those ones in DeFi that it feels like it can almost describe many things
because of how frequently you guys use it, or not you guys, people use it. So in your guys' words,
what is a vault in the context of what you guys are doing? And what does your strategy offer?
What does it do? I would say like just from first principles basis, a vault, and I agree with you
actually, Wyatt, that people use the term vault in a variety of different ways. And it means
different things to different people. But what it means to us simply is a smart contract that wraps
around strategies. The vault handles accounting, NAV calculation, and asset deployment. But it's
a way to abstract away DeFi complexity. It provides a single click experience for users
to deposit an asset. And then the vault architecture can deploy that into any arbitrary
number of underlying DeFi strategies. Now, what that means from a user perspective is that
I, as a user, don't need to go around hunting for opportunities to deploy my asset in DeFi.
I don't need to be managing my positions, monitoring my positions, monitoring funding
rates, all this sort of stuff, checking that exploits aren't occurring. I'm deferring that
to the vault and the operators of the vault. And I'm, as a result, passively earning a return
on my assets that I've deployed. And I think why this is an important primitive is because
if we believe this feature that DeFi is supposedly building towards, which is
the financial plumbing for the whole world and replacing the existing TradFi ecosystem,
there has to be simplicity and there has to be a better user experience.
Like right now, DeFi is hard. DeFi is complex. There's exploits all the time. As of the time
we're recording, there was this package manager exploit not that long ago. And if you're not on
Crypto Twitter 24 seven, if you're not technical, if you don't know what you're signing, it's very
possible for you to lose all your money and either you lose your money and never come back,
or you become very disgruntled. And so, yeah, to reach normies and to be the plumbing of the
global financial system, all this complexity and risk has to be abstracted away. And vaults are
a really interesting architecture of wrapping a smart contract around that and just providing
a really simple single click user experience to people. Well, I think it's a very powerful
thing because anyone can really create a vault strategy, obviously, so long as they take on
security hygiene, social norms and do so in a responsible way. And anyone can deposit versus
I've always thought one of the tragedies of our financial system is inherently the best
investment products are not accessible to the wide mass of people. You can't get into the
best venture funds. You can't get into the best hedge funds. You see assets offered to you by
brokerages and different places where you can trade via an exchange model, but it's a beautiful
thing, the permissionless vault or permissionless strategy that anyone has access to.
And actually, it's a good point. I mean, the thing I'd add to that as well is, and actually,
I did a talk about this at ETH Denver earlier in the year, is that one thing I learned after being
a founder in DeFi, and maybe this reflects on my naivety before, but once I was on the inside,
you realize that so much of this TVL and so much of this BD is just kind of backroom deals, right?
As a sort of naive user, an optimistic user, perhaps you could say, logging on and saying,
oh, wow, there's a billion dollars of TVL in this protocol. Like, oh, wow, it's like a ton
of people using it. If you broke that down onto like who owns that TVL, it's maybe like
10 liquid funds that are being paid to be there. And there's 50 million of retail deposits in there.
And so, I call this like the sort of dirty secret of DeFi is that a lot of this is not
decentralized. It's all kind of mercenary capital. But why I bring that up is on this like access
point that you just talked about, Wyatt, is that, again, as a naive retail user, like you're not
getting access to these deals that these liquid funds and whales essentially getting paid and
bribed to be in these protocols. We're trying to democratize that. And by having this pool of
capital in our vault, as Steve said, we're doing these BD deals and negotiating with new chains
and things like that and saying, hey, if you want this, we've got 50 million of our ETH TVL, for
example. It's like collective bargaining. Yeah, exactly. There's kind of two parts to that,
that part I love, actually, because when you first kind of peel back the curtain,
you realize what's happening. It's like, oh, that's not the way this was meant to be.
So, we love being able to bring, especially to the Rockaboo community, access to those incentives.
Also, you said it's kind of cool in crypto that people, there's less gatekeeping, right? But
there's also risk associated with that. So, one product I like, DeFi Saver, has access to a bunch
of just DeFi strategies that are out there. Even there, I'm just looking through at some of the
strategies we'll launch with. One thing we do is leverage looping on our ETH. And so, that's one
thing that is great for a protocol. For those who don't know, it's like you deposit our ETH on Aave,
borrow some ETH, you can mince some more out of that, deposit that. And as long as the borrow
weight is less than what you're getting from the LST, you make a bit of money. So, if you leverage
it, you make more. Now, those rates can change, right? And it can go negative. And that happened
recently. And so, if you're not monitoring that, you start losing money. And then your positions
can also start getting liquidated. So, it's great that in crypto, you can do that, we think, like
the people who have access to crypto and want to do it. But it's very easy just to lose your money
that way. And that's just one strategy, right? And it goes for all of them, like LPing into a
Uniswap pool. There's permanent loss, where just directionally the thing moved against you. You
might be earning fees, but you lost your capital. So, these things are accessible. But if you really
want to fully embrace DeFi, you kind of have to become like a mini hedge fund with your
monitoring and risk allocation and all that stuff. And again, that's part of what you try to
bring to a liquid vault. It's like the systems happen on the back end. We have
professional partners that help us. So, you, you depositor, you just get it. You just get the
benefit, but you don't have to have all the operational overhead. Do you think over time,
most or a lot of the capital in DeFi, in crypto, gravitates towards these vault strategies versus
individual yield seeking for these reasons that you guys highlight?
I do. I think that's why vaults have kind of had their moment. I even just saw one recently,
just like one minor example. It was a tokenized leverage looping strategy. And it was like,
click a button and you can do leverage looping. And then it just has a big red box says,
but you need to go and monitor funding rates every day on Aave. And if they go negative,
then you should unwind, come back here and unwind really quickly or it will break.
And it's like, that is not the user experience that anybody is looking for.
So, in terms of simplicity, absolutely. In terms of being able to pool capital and use that,
you said for collective bargaining, absolutely. It's just kind of a nice
packaging almost of both user experience and underlying technology.
Actually, Ben, is it worth talking about the DATS thing here as well?
I was just about to say that actually. You read my mind. You said, is the majority of
TVL going to be in these products? I think even a question that's above that one,
a first order question is where is the TVL going to come from? And I think what we're seeing right
now is this flow, this flood of institutional capital coming on chain. And right now in this
moment, that's being driven by DATS, these digital asset treasury companies.
I've never heard of those. What are they? That's a whole other topic in rabbit hole
that maybe we don't want to go down, but they are driving a lot of TVL on chain right now.
And the next wave of capital, if they live up to their promises, stable coins,
put all this together and it's trillions and trillions of dollars of capital.
But if we talk about DATS specifically, all this institutional capital specifically,
these institutions aren't going to be on chain monitoring all these positions and they've got
risk appetites. They've got levels of technical competence. And frankly, for DATS specifically,
publicly listed companies, they've got reporting requirements, accounting standards to comply with,
blah, blah, blah, blah. So actually, Volts, I think, are really well placed to serve these
institutional style customers because they're fully bespoke, fully customizable. Strategies can
be tailored depending on the risk appetite of the fund. You can wrap legal wrappers and accounting
structures around them to satisfy any reporting and regulatory requirements. So yeah, I think the
majority of TVL on chain will be in these Volts, but I think actually it'll be driven by the weight
of capital that's coming from institutions because this product is so well suited for them.
I find it so funny that you get these DATS or digital asset treasury companies
that have their assets supplying TVL to DeFi and DeFi Volts now because I feel like for so long,
you've heard the argument of, oh, smart contracts are risky, Volts are risky, so users shouldn't
directly interact. Alternatively, what you clearly need to do is invest in a biotech equity wrapper
phantom stock so that the underlying ETH can then be deposited into these strategies.
Indeed, right. Preaching to the converter.
It's a remarkable timeline. Yeah, exactly. So you have those participants.
So can anyone deposit into these Volts or who can use them?
Yeah, anyone can deposit. Anyone can interact directly with the smart contract. But using our
front end, we block sanctioned jurisdictions and it's not available to residents in the UK,
US, Singapore and Australia. But outside of that, any user can deposit assets into the
Vault, like be those institutions, retail, something accessible product.
And how does the RockSolid protocol or any other Vault provider make money in these arrangements?
Yeah, the Vault business role is really simple. There's a service fee. In TradFi,
that would be like an AUM fee. So for the RE Vault, it's 1% and there's a 10% fee on performance.
One of the nice things just using smart contracts for these things, you can encode the rules,
right? And people can see the rules. And so one of the nice things with the performance fee is
it's only earned on the way up and it's kind of like recorded at a high watermark. So if the
Vault loses value for any reason and then catches back up, there's no fee there. It's just on net
new performance. So yeah, 1% service fee, 10% performance fee.
Broadly, as you guys are building the protocol, how do you measure success
or what are you looking for? Yeah, I got to say for me as a leader,
like TVL is just a beautiful metric. It's something we can rally all the teams around.
It's a clear one for VD folks who are helping us get new protocols on board to launch their own
vaults. It's good too for product engineering to be focused on what are the things we're doing
to drive TVL. Number go up.
Number go up, right? And it's just directly like it means that we're building the products
that people want. So very much TVL. But I think you can be blinded if you don't think about
what is driving the TVL. Why is this good? And to take the RE example, we were talking about
how many new incentives did we negotiate on behalf of the Rocket Pool protocol, right?
How many new integrations happened because there was concentrated pool of liquidity in this vault?
Those are things that we're already tracking that feed that TVL number. But I think that's how we
know that we're helping our customers. When I say our customers like the protocol, right,
be successful by helping their token holders be successful.
Where do you guys see opportunity moving forward? And with that in mind,
where do you hope to be and help for the protocol to be in a few years time?
I mean, our immediate plan and our immediate objective is to build a similar product for
other protocols. So you know, we're launching with Rocket Pool. Once this podcast is published,
we'll be live. And yeah, we'll see how well that product is going. And you know, we're expecting
it to be embraced by the Rocket Pool community. And at that point, we'll have a proof point that
we can point to and say, look at how we were able to build this product, which helped the
Rocket Pool community generated rewards for their users. And from the perspective of Rocket Pool,
there was no lift required, like the Rock Solid team was able to kind of do all the work and
integrate this thing for them. So yeah, it's building this product for other protocols out
there and sort of helping them and helping their asset holders. And then the other kind of, I guess,
leg of this is that institutional customer base that we sort of talked about earlier. As I said,
I think vaults are really well placed to serve this wave of institutional capital that's coming
online. And the key to winning that customer base, I think, is three things. One, there has to be
some lindiness and some proof points in the market already, which we now have with Rocket Pool.
There has to be, I think, a really high touch sort of integration and support model and a really
custom tailored set of strategies and architectures, policies, rules, controls that suit that type of
customer base. And the third thing that has to be qualified custodian integration, because a lot of
these types of customers, they need to keep their assets in QCs because of their sort of corporate
governance reasons. And so having something that natively plugs into that will be able to serve
those customer needs. And so yeah, I think going after that institutional customer base, that's
where the wave of capital, I think, is going to come from in DeFi. We're sort of actively pursuing
that now as well. Yeah, I think serving more protocols, anywhere there's a stablecoin balance,
anywhere there's an ERC20 balance, anywhere that DATs are holding assets that could be better
served, like we want to be there, be that in wallets, custodians, exchanges, et cetera.
I think when I look a bit further forward, and even we've talked about how Rocket Pool got
started as an OG Ethereum project, one thing that's happened recently, I think you said the
timeline, right? We've gone from an actively hostile administration in the US, for example,
to the treasury secretary talking about that stablecoins are a great way to sell US treasuries
to the world, right? The world is very different now. And stablecoins have done a great job
of helping people in, for example, hyper-inflating currency economies to protect the savings.
That's just this beautiful example of permissionless systems and how people
can really benefit from this. And for the longest time, people have been quite happy
to earn 0% on those balances because the bigger problem they're dealing with is inflation, right?
And I think as the industry grows and as things like vaults and rock-solid vaults become integrated
everywhere, I don't think people need to accept 0% interest or half of the underlying treasury bill
interest. I think we'll start to see more and more that rock-solid vaults, for example, are
just there wherever you are, where your balances are held, and you can just opt in to start earning
additional rewards. Yeah, I'd love to see that everywhere. Yeah, I think that the end state is
vaults power everything, DeFi powers everything, and vaults abstract away that DeFi and just
become this plumbing that is everywhere. And so, yeah, we're looking forward to that future.
I mean, they're not that different structurally from like an ETF or some kind of index product,
right? Yeah, at some level, like those products do abstract complexity and give a single interface.
Yeah, so there's definitely a good comparison there.
Well, guys, thanks for coming on and chatting. Congratulations on all the progress. I'm excited
for what's ahead. Yeah, now it's exciting times. Appreciate you being board-wide and having us on
today. Go deposit. Yeah, cool. Have a good one.
