TITLE: Digital Asset and Canton Network: Permissioned vs Permissionless Blockchains, On-Chain Privacy (Yuval Ruaz & Eric Sarinecki)
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Digital_Asset_Yuval_and_Eric_-_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
Today on the podcast, I sat down with Yuval Ruaz and Eric Sarinecki, the founders of Digital
Asset. Digital Asset was founded in 2014 and has been a leading company in the institutional
blockchain market, building on the Canton network. In this conversation, we discuss the origins of
Digital Asset, the age-old debate of permissionless versus permissioned blockchains, the importance of
on-chain privacy, and what's ahead for the Canton network public blockchain. I think you'll enjoy
this one. So without further ado, here's my conversation with Yuval and Eric.
Employees will be liquidated. The federal government loans American international group
AIG 85 billion dollars. This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep. The federal
government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage giants that
have been threatened by the housing crisis. The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more
into Britain's ailing economy with a new round of quantitative easing. You print a couple trillion
dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry. So out of this worry, we have something called
the Bitcoin Bitcoin. Yuval and Eric, thanks so much for joining us today on the podcast. Excited
to talk more about Digital Asset and Canton. Yeah, great to have you, man. I think a good
place to start is just who are you? What are you guys building? And I think a lot of people
have heard your names throughout the industry and would love to just get a little bit of the
background. Thanks, man. Thanks for having us. So I'm Eric. I'm one of the co-founders of Digital
Asset. We've been at this coming up in 11 years in August. It's been quite a journey.
Prior to that, I spent about a decade at DRW. I helped get Cumberland off the ground
in 13 and I've been in the crypto space for a while. I'm really focused on making sure that
our network go-to-market motion is a robust motion, that it's pulling in people from
TradFi and crypto native and finding really strong utility points and crossover opportunities for
those participants. Similar background to Eric, been close to a decade at DRW and Citadel before
and both Eric and I left DRW to start this company. My job here beyond just running the
business is convincing the market why we have been consistently doing things different than
the rest of public permissionless chains. I love it. All right. And we're definitely
going to get into that. Before we get into the private versus public and how that has all
unfolded over the years, what was the original premise for the business? You guys were just
super early to blockchains and crypto and what made it exciting enough to actually start a
company here for you? I think it's easy probably to say it 10 years after the fact, it all got
better and better from a messaging perspective. But I think that if DeFi is an inspiration to
anyone, I think that the reason why DeFi is so exciting is that you can process financial
transactions at a marginal cost that effectively is zero in order to bring new products, new services
where in TradFi doing that requires strategic partnerships, really a very well thought of
business case. You need to calculate the costs and really doing these types of partnerships is very
expensive and hard because of the costs associated with it. And the reason why I say that is the
inspiration is because when we started digital asset, a recurring theme throughout the 10 years
have been how can we bring commerce or financial transactions to all happen natively on chain?
The thesis was not just that you could reduce a lot of costs that exist today in TradFi
and as a result make businesses more profitable, is we believe and we can talk about a few examples
that once you actually bring the books and records to be natively on chain, I think the
marginal costs of creating new products and new business ideas effectively becomes financially
feasible, which today is just not. So I would say that that really was the motivation to say that
I could say it as clearly as I'm saying it right now. 10 years ago would not be true,
but I would say that it is a recurring theme throughout the life of the company.
Bringing institutional processes and opportunities and new businesses
into these public networks has been a motivation for us from the very beginning.
In the early days, it's so funny to think back on what this looked like in 2015 when you guys were
getting going because you had a number of competitors that don't exist anymore that were
selling private blockchains in the context of Bitcoin is not going to be around, it's not going
to be a thing and you have this choice between public or private and there just wasn't a lot of
nuance in the conversation. You guys have always been really nuanced around the role of public,
the role of privacy, the role of how these systems need to touch institutions. So maybe
you could just talk a little bit about that and how you think about the narratives of privacy and
private chains versus public chains. First of all, this whole public versus private
is a bit silly because even chains that others would consider to be fully public permissionless
are not truly fully permissionless in the sense that you need to get agreement from the foundation
to become a validator. In some of the chains, you need to be a multimillionaire to be a validator.
What are the lines that blur between fully public permissionless to private and really the way I
think about it is when this technology was introduced and people got excited about it,
if you wanted to bring institutional players to it, they had some concerns about are they going
to be participating in illicit activity or an activity that they have no control of,
which generally speaking, even if it's not illicit activity, is very challenging.
In my opinion, it made sense in the early days, no different than the internet in the early days
where you actually could share your information. You started with intranets and you had a much
more controlled environment in which you said, even if I leaked information, I'm not necessarily
okay, but it wouldn't be a disaster if it happened within this closed network. I think that some of
the large scale enterprises were more comfortable testing the technology within something that is
akin to a private network. Again, that private network doesn't necessarily mean that you even
have privacy. If you use BESU today, which is a private ledger, you still don't have privacy
within a BESU network. I still think that banks are more comfortable using BESU because at least
they know we are participating with a group of peers that we do business with on a day-to-day
basis. So I think the early days were much more about controlling the environment, not necessarily
having a strict definition of what is public permissionless versus private. It was more about
working only with peers that you had control of defining that. For us, this is why I give this
example of BESU. Again, I go to the previous topic of how do you have books and records on chain?
For us, it didn't really matter. Are you in a private network, a public network?
If you want large scale institutions to participate at scale, privacy to us was a must have,
and it wasn't something that we could give up. We worked on the technology from the ground up where
we said rather than having just a ledger that has one privacy model, and you need to figure out how
you work within that one privacy model, we should give the application creators the flexibility to
define what are the privacy boundaries, what are the control boundaries, and what are the access
boundaries, as you would have in most applications on the internet, and then be able to deploy it on
the same network as everyone else. We started with a much more controlled environment. In 2020,
the first version of Canton was introduced, and you could deploy it really more as a private network.
As we were developing the technology and getting more and more comfortable, we will be able to have
some security, privacy, control, have all the requirements needed in order to develop it or
launch it as a fully public permissionless network. We just went towards that, and in the middle of
last year, we had the first version of fully public Canton launch. I like to ask, in the
nuanced category here, what's the most successful public permissionless network in the world?
It may be a trick question. Your mind goes to Bitcoin, but I guess you would say
Linux or something. How would you answer that? I like to point to the internet. Some good answers
I've heard are like the US dollar. I think that that's a really nice answer, too. The scale of the
internet dwarfs what we've been able to achieve in the Bitcoin ETH ecosystems, and I think it has
all the characteristics of what you've all just said, which is it's a public permissionless
ecosystem, but if you're a participant in it, you determine the terms under which you participate.
Am I running an app? I can be wide open and everything is accessible, or I can have really
strong gates. Am I providing some services? I can have it available to anybody, or I can
determine who I interact with. In the end, there wasn't one model that won everything on the
internet. We have a super heterogeneous ecosystem. To pretend that everything is going to be
fully public, fully decentralized, and that's the only way that you'll be able to succeed,
I think it just closes the door on a whole area of experimentation and use cases that clearly don't
benefit from that. Even the things that have been runaway successes in these public networks,
like stablecoins, you have decentralized validation of an asset that the issuer can take
back at any time. It's almost a contradiction in the tools versus the outcome.
Just acknowledging these contradictions and dropping the pretense and the religion about
what it means to use the public network really opens up the design space of the types of things
and the tools you can give to the people that would join the network to find that sweet spot
that works for them. Because ultimately, if it's not valued for them and it's not valued for their
investors or their counterparties or their customers, none of this is going to grow.
It just becomes an echo chamber. We wanted to make sure that we gave everybody the tools to figure
out the right level of all those different levers for them to solve a problem and achieve an outcome.
This was brought to life for me and really where I started to understand what you guys are doing
at a more granular level is when you started to tell me about some of the use cases around
collateral management and how your customers were using the network. So maybe you could talk a
little bit about that use case around collateral and why this setup is optimal for that use case.
What's really interesting about collateral is today it's a very low velocity project.
It's the backbone of why you can trade, you're leveraging assets, it's what gives you your
margin ability, it's what allows you to settle, it's what allows you to de-risk your counterparty
risk. But then we really only have the facilities to move them efficiently maybe once a day during
business days. And markets are increasingly 24 by 7, markets are increasingly international,
they're interconnected. And the limiting factor today is really balance sheet and collateral
efficiency. There's somewhere in the neighborhood of $230 trillion of eligible collateral in the
world. I think we use barely 10% of it in the workflows that we have today. People are
balance sheet constrained and simultaneously significantly under utilizing the collateral
that is available, not using it at a velocity that's going to actually de-risk the process.
If I have collateral on a Friday, someone goes bankrupt on a Sunday and I walk in Monday,
I'm walking into a fire sale risk. So just being able to take these things and say,
great, I want to do a variation margin cycle with my counterparty every two hours. You're
taking massive amounts of risk off the table. And in order to do that, you have to have a ledger
that allows you to move these assets in a safe and secure way with high velocity, with high
certainty, but also with privacy. Because when you're thinking about a derives position,
that variation margin is giving away a lot of information about, well, maybe I'm short deltas
or I'm short volatility and that's why I'm net delivering on this movement. And you can start
to learn a lot about someone's position by just watching the money movements. And then that can
turn into market manipulation problems, that can turn into market interference problems.
And ultimately what that means is that I think that the whole crypto ecosystem is undersized
because when you start to get into those transactions big enough that people would
want to take advantage of that information, you're going off chain, you're going bilateral,
you're going away from these automated systems and you're effectively just entering back into
the very low velocity, high counterparty risk environment that we had before. Without privacy,
without the mobility of these assets, you can't really fundamentally change the backbone of
markets, which is how you settle and manage this risk. CanSense really designed from the ground
up to support those types of capabilities. So whether it's treasuries or euro bonds or
guilds or money market funds or wrapped crypto or stable coins, all those things move with the same
velocity and getting the liquidity figured out between them and being able to post all of them
and substitute all of them and find the cheapest thing to deliver is a killer use case for blockchain.
And then without privacy, you'll just never get to the level of scale and adoption to break out of
the casino. That's what we're really excited about is just to demonstrate how we can do this
crossover. We can solve problems in crypto, but just as equally, if not more importantly,
can solve problems in TradFi that have the same characteristics.
I think for those who have participated in crypto till the year of 2014-15, if you wanted to trade
in multiple crypto exchanges, you had to over collateralize all of your accounts because you
couldn't capture the opportunity fast enough by wiring money from one exchange to another.
And then Ethereum showed up and then Tether showed up and voila, suddenly the efficiency in crypto
just blew up. And I think you could actually see that in markets from volumes that suddenly I could
actually manage my capital much more efficiently because now I can move US dollars all over the
world 24 seven. Now in crypto, they accepted that that happens without privacy. That was just a
given. I actually think that the same phenomena exists in TradFi markets, but at a hundred X,
the size of the markets. So imagine if a similar phenomena were to happen in TradFi
by mobilizing collateral 24 seven to what you saw in crypto when stable coins were introduced.
That to me is what gets me excited is I just see that paradigm shift and that definitely
can exist. I mean, just recently you started seeing exchanges talking about 24 five or 24 seven.
Well, how are they going to do that? Currently, the solution is over collateralized all of your
accounts, but that's not capital efficient. If you think about interest rates, where they are
massive movements in the market right now, you cannot capture all of these opportunities
unless you have the balance sheet to do that. I think the opportunity here is dramatic. And
I will add to the point about privacy. I don't think that TradFi organizations would accept
to do that on their TradFi activity without privacy and crypto. They kind of accept it.
The interesting thing is since we introduced Canton, it's now even the crypto native players
that are coming and saying, Hey, how do we move these assets with privacy? Because we don't enjoy
people front running us because they keep on watching all of our wallets and all of these
non privacy chains and people do front run them. So it's interesting to see that even now the
institutional crypto players are very focused on privacy and figuring out how they can obfuscate
their activity. It's interesting because in crypto, it was almost just that the technology
for privacy didn't exist in the early days. And so there's a path dependency here. Whereas
if you could have done this out of the gate of Bitcoin had some privacy layer on top of it,
it very well could have been the way that that market evolved. But it's kind of interesting
that it didn't have privacy out of the gate. And so people just sort of adapted to it. But
later entrepreneurs like yourselves come across and make it better. So it's interesting to watch
from the outside in. I really like how Zuko talks about this in the early days. He used to always
talk with Satoshi about how the transparency was a major bug and a major flaw and that it was very
hard for them to achieve their ideal without it. Then somewhere in like 14 through 18,
transparency became the selling point. The bug became the feature. And I think people
are coming back to realization that the transparency is a major flaw in design.
But the thing is, it's going to be very difficult for people to pivot out of that
because so much of the design of what they've built relies upon the full transparency of the system.
Everybody built their integration assuming they have access to all the data. Everybody built
everything that they do in these ecosystems, the dApps, everything. It's more than just let's try
to bolt on some privacy preservation. And it really leads to a fundamental rethink about what
it means to be connected to these ecosystems and how you interact with them. Another point that
you're seeing as very popular now is the conflation between zero knowledge and privacy. Maybe that's
an important thing to distinguish is that we don't consider zero knowledge as a privacy solution.
It's an anonymity solution. It's a way to obfuscate the inputs from everyone involved in the
transaction. And again, if you bring it back to, I give this example, imagine you had a zero knowledge
algorithm called Sam Bankman Fried, which you just give it collateral. And Sam Bankman Fried
tells you, great, we have the collateral. It's here. It's with us. Until you have the market
meltdown and you need to call on that collateral. And then you find out that there was a bug into
zero knowledge and the collateral was actually never there. To us, that is not privacy. That,
if anything, opens the door for a systemic risk within the system because we know there's always
bugs. I think one of the critical things that we've been thinking about is privacy is how do
you make sure that only the stakeholders to the transaction have full visibility into what's on
the ledger where those that are not stakeholders to the transactions just actually don't know
said activity have happened on the ledger. And I think that that's a very big difference. And
I think the reason why ZKPs are now being pushed as a privacy solution, it's because it's a nice
bolt on, on ledgers that haven't thought of privacy from first principles as like an anchor
tenant in their design. And it's much more comfortable now to add zero knowledge as an
afterthought. So to bring this to life, maybe on how this would work on the chain itself,
say I am moving treasury collateral over to you guys, what would the public see on the blockchain
itself when I'm making that collateral movement? They wouldn't. This is really the nice thing
about Canton is that you could actually have two different applications that have very different
privacy models. Let's just imagine that Matt, you're my prime broker, I'm your client,
and you send me variation margin calls throughout the day. We decided that my activity with my
prime broker is fully private to us. We don't want anyone else in the world to know about the margin
calls. But we do know, let's just imagine that we have a stable coins. In the case of Circle on
Canton, it will be with privacy, but let's imagine that Circle wanted to issue it very similar to how
stable coins have been working on other chains, where everybody gets to see everyone's account
balances in a pseudo anonymous manner. The nice thing in Canton is that you could actually compose
a transaction of two applications that have very different privacy models,
still compose a transaction. Imagine you gave me a transaction, which is you created a variation
margin request, and now I want to fund it with USDC. You and I, Matt, will actually see an atomic
transaction between me satisfying the variation margin versus the USDC moving between the two
wallets. Eric, who's not part of that transaction, would only see USDC moving between two wallets.
He wouldn't know for what reason. Why? Because he's not a stakeholder to the
prime brokerage transaction. And that's really, I think the power of Canton is the world is not
homogeneous. It actually has the capability of composing multiple applications that have very
different privacy settings without leaking information between them.
The way that Canton works, it dynamically calculates who are the stakeholders to the
transaction. And it knows how to have effectively consensus across only those stakeholders. And you
can have, like I said, multiple levels of privacy. I can think of so many examples where having that
feature in the stable coin market would make the stable coin market better and larger. Think
about payroll use cases and regular vendor payments that you wouldn't want fully disclosed.
It's shocking that the stable coin market has gotten as large as it has without this.
I totally agree. I mean, listen, we have customers that are doing life insurance
natively on chain. They actually do not have any other system of record beyond Canton.
And the reason why they got comfortable is because of the security and privacy features
of Canton. And now they are exactly talking to us. Hey, how can we integrate something like stable
coins to actually process some of the transactions? And the reason is because they can actually do
that with privacy. So they totally see the value of, hey, if I have these assets natively on chain,
I can securitize these products much easier. I can process transactions. I can process payments
related to them, but I'm not sacrificing any of my fiduciary duties to my clients and customers.
In the early days, I'm sure you were going to a lot of institutions and they were just trying to
figure out what the heck is Bitcoin. Explain to me blockchain technology. These days, maybe some
of that's still going on. I suspect it probably is at some institutions, but then you have other
institutions that are mentioning Canton on earnings calls. It's a very interesting market
to observe from my side where the discrepancy is crazy here. So what does it look like for you guys
when you show up at an institution and how are you talking about the various business cases?
I don't know if it's because of fatigue or because I find it to be more productive to not talk about
blockchain. It's incredible when you explain to people, for example, we do this project with
iCapital, putting private equity on chain and efficiencies, the DeFi opportunities that now
you can effectively encumber these assets to get lending against LP holdings and things like that.
It's amazing when you go to customers and you understand and appreciate their business and you
understand where they make money and where they spend dollars. And you don't come to them with a
brave world kind of vision of how they need to change everything that they're doing.
And you're just saying, look, we've done AXYZ with these types of customers that are very similar
to what you do and look at the result that they have. I just find those conversations
to be much easier and much more productive. And it's not about my blockchain is bigger or better
or faster or cheaper than others. It does eventually translate into hard questions about privacy.
I can tell you when I had recently a meeting with a very impressive woman at a clearinghouse,
a very important clearinghouse, and she dismissed the whole art of the possible and everything.
She was like, you want to talk to me about collateral? Tell me how you perfect title.
And I love that because she got to like, don't tell me about I can move assets between wallets
fast enough. If you really want to talk collateral, it means that you know what is the meaning of
perfecting a title. What does it mean to be bankruptcy remote? And if you can convince me
that you've thought about those things and your technology can solve for that, then we'll move to
the next phase. So again, it's kind of a very similar angle that what has worked really well
in the last few years is talking about business outcomes without having to say, hey, you need to
reset everything you know about your world. You need to kind of throw away your 20 years of
experience and we're just going to do everything fresh from the ground up. When you don't talk
like that, you talk about incremental gains that are much more anchored in reality. It ends up being
a much more fruitful conversation. They get very excited by the tale of opportunity. That's what
I think has changed a lot in the past five years is that some things have had good success. And so
they can see how things can get beyond that initial phase. So I would say that the body language is a
lot more leaning forward than defensive. But to Yval's point, if it's not about how it's going to
transform their business to be safer, cheaper, make them more money, make their customers more money,
it doesn't really matter what's under the hood. So being outcome driven and focus on it and then
making sure that the tech doesn't run into all the reasons you're going to get vetoed. It's still a
process. It's still a conversation, but people are more inclined to want to find a positive outcome
and an answer to move forward than they were maybe five years ago, but you're still going
to go through the exact same vetting process. It's really impressive what you guys have built
from an ecosystem perspective. If you just take the lens that this is not necessarily always just
a technology problem. It's ultimately like a network effect financial services landscape
that only works if a lot of different counterparties are all on the same network. So how have you guys
thought about crafting that network as you've grown the organization over time and trying
to figure out the use cases that have what I would call a minimum viable ecosystem? They don't
work if just one or two firms get on board. You'd be surprised though, how often you can find an
entry point where it is enough that there's one or two firms. And so it's really useful to find
those and start. I mean, as an example, the repo project that we have with Broderidge, we started
with intra company. So the London versus the French versus the New York part of the organization or
the deposit tokens that are doing well with transfer pricing and internal treasury management.
Sometimes one's enough because within an organization, there's an ecosystem already.
So finding an entry point is really important, but then to really accelerate that and turn it
into something meaningful, it's about finding those early connections into something else.
It's more important to find the connections to other applications than it is to have more
users in your application. My example that I like to talk a lot about is,
if you think about capital markets, love them or hate them, they sit underneath all the crypto
native products that we rely on the most. When we talk about a stable coin, it's sitting in
treasuries, it's at bony, it's in the repo and reverse repo market, it's holding money market
funds. So you have a fundamentally crypto native asset that is buoyed by the strength and power
and trustworthiness of capital markets. But it also means that if they're accessing those
capital markets in traditional ways, that they're held back by whatever those current shortcomings
are. Cool, stable coin, you've actually only solved a portion of the problem. Being able to
instantly create or redeem that 24 hours a day, being able to deliver treasuries, not just money
through the fed wire, being able to face them in repo, 24 by seven repo, intraday repo, over the
weekend repo, custom tenor and term, all that sort of stuff. That's where we look for the
first connections. You've solved an immediate problem by issuing an asset. Now, where can you
use that as collateral? Or can I compose that with a cash movement? Or can I automate some of the
lifecycle events through this other system? And that secondary app connection is where things
really take off. Because that's where we think that blockchain really is the technological
innovation is in the composability area. Earlier, we were talking about private
blockchains. The reason we've always been allergic to getting classified as a private blockchain
is because you're throwing composability out the window, which is the big opportunity here.
So we've always been focused on making sure that no matter how we've come to market,
no matter where we start, no matter how narrow that entry point is,
composability is a short term goal and a technological possibility because of what's
built into Canton. If you go again back to the previous question about what we're talking to
customers, I think for us and the name of the chain Canton, why Canton? Canton is really,
first our team is in Switzerland who built it and this is more of a tribute to them.
But it's also if you think about Switzerland as really a federation of Cantons, they all kind of
have their nuance, different tax, different language, different rules, but they all interoperate
under Switzerland. The goal of the network is really to create user experiences if I'm connected
to one network, but really under the hood, it's many, many Cantons that all interoperate with one
another. The reason I bring that up is because when you think about the beachheads that we've done,
in many cases, they were kind of a closed network that solved a very specific problem for that
network. But because they all build on the same protocol, eventually they all come together. So now
USDC comes to the network, oh wow, all of the Cantons that are just doing transactions on the
asset side now can compose transactions to get rid of their traditional payment provider to settle
the cash lag using USDC. We have a life insurance company, they were solving life insurance and
annuities business, but now we have private assets that exist on Canton like private credit,
private equity. Guess what? You can encumber those assets into a whole life platform. And I can keep
on giving you examples, securitization of mortgages, horse racing, physical net gas, collateral,
security lending. All of those beachheads were solving very specific problems, but eventually
the long-term strategy was as long as they can hold on their two feet for long enough,
eventually as the technology becomes more and more popular, you are starting now to see these
connections between them. We've done repo on Canton. Guess what? Now when you have US Treasuries or
Eurobonds and guilds on Canton, well now suddenly a stablecoin provider can do 24x7 repo to do a 24x7
create redeem of a stablecoin. The long-term view was very similar to the internet, solve an
immediate efficiency within a localized network, but long-term as the technology becomes more and
more popular, you will start seeing these composable interactions throughout the network.
Yeah, such a great example of the intranet versus internet and you can see how that evolves. It's
also really clear that you must be talking to a lot of different institutions that have different
pain points. Some of them are probably looking at cost savings and others, you can just imagine
new markets getting created here where there are just things that wouldn't otherwise be possible
without a technology like this. So I want to switch gears here a little bit just to the
token itself on the Canton network. So this is not a theory. You guys have this in production,
it's working today, people are on it. So maybe you could talk a little bit about the token itself,
the public network, how it works, why it matters. First of all, maybe just about generically
speaking, the token, we believe that this space have had too many white papers selling tokens to
retail. And for us, we wanted to go back to the original thinker behind this movement who said
the technology needs to prove itself. And as a result, the token will be earned and will
appreciate in value. So first of all, we decided with everyone else who helped us launch the
network that we're going to do a fair launch. We didn't do a pre-mine digital asset doesn't sit on
60, 70, 80% of the token. We wanted it to be a decentralized network and we wanted the network
to gain value because it proves its value. A lot of people in crypto thought we were stupid
for doing that, but we thought it was extremely important. Second of all, we wanted to make sure
that before we list the token, you could trade the token today, you could do secondary trades,
but before we list the token, we actually show real world utility at scale running on the network.
And that is still on track to get listed later this year. And I think we will be hopefully top
10 from dollar utility actually on chain when we get listed. And that will be exciting.
I think that when you look at Bitcoin, it is an asset class. It's not a blockchain. It's an asset
class that has a blockchain to drive that asset class. And therefore it makes sense for those that
secure that use case to earn all the reward. I think when you start thinking of smart contract
chains, it's more of a platform. And we believe that this idea that miners or validators earn
all of the reward is not the right incentive structure. Why? Because it is the builders,
it's the users that actually create the value. They think about the business models. They think
about new creative ideas. They do marketing. They go to conferences. They have meetings.
They work really hard to make their DApps or DeFi protocols a success. And I think that it is
pretty odd that no one in the smart contract chain tokenomics world came and said, well,
if they drive all the volume and as a result, all the fees into our networks,
they deserve a big chunk of the reward. And this is not a new concept. You have influencers,
you have interchange, you have just so many different things where there should be some
shared economics with those that drive the success to the network. So I'll leave it at
that high level to let Eric explain the specifics. But it's this idea that we wanted to make sure
if you come to build on Canton, if you invest time, effort, and you become successful,
we believe that a big portion of the tokenomics should go your way for that investment.
Very similarly, people ask me all the time, you guys have been at this for over 10 years,
what was the point of the coin and why the timing on it? Timing is also a question we get a lot.
And so for me, it always starts from the same place, which is about aligned incentives.
What I think the crypto ecosystem has done an excellent job of doing in the past roughly 15
years is experimenting with different incentive systems and creating incentive systems where
there are first mover advantages where technologically there may not be. Network
effects don't necessarily have first mover advantages. And so to be able to create those
opportunities is very important. It helps you kind of bootstrap an ecosystem. It creates the
incentive to move quicker rather than slower. It entices the more risk loving early participants.
I used to always really respect and love these crypto networks for being a really strong filter
for people that want to participate in these apps. I think that that's something that gets
overlooked a lot is you have a very active community of people that are willing to adopt
the latest decks or the latest chain or the latest lending protocol or whatever it may be.
And I think a big part of that is that the incentive structures that have been designed
around these networks have encouraged and cultivated that community. It was time to do
that in Canton. I've jokingly sometimes said we built a network the way you might have built a
strip mall in the 90s, anchored tenants first and then opened it up and brought it into a bigger
ecosystem. And part of that was about aligning the incentives between all the participants that
would come early. So to Yuval's point, concretely in every single block, there's three tranches of
mining rewards. One third of all the rewards that will ever get minted over the first 10 years of
the network go to the miners, which is a very small percentage as compared to other networks,
which generally are right around 100%. If not 100%, like we mentioned, there's no pre-mine or
pre-sale. So every coin that will ever come into existence gets earned by somebody doing something.
And one of those categories is being what we call a super validator, but just think of it as mining.
The second category is going to users. Think of it as like a transaction subsidy. It helps cover
some of your expenses of using the chain. So the more active you are, then the more of that
validator reward or user reward you'll receive. And then the preponderance of the reward, 50%
of all the coins that will get earned by anybody over the first 10 years, go to applications as
measured by the network fees that they generate. And this is, I think, relatively unheard of in the
other networks. I haven't seen other examples, certainly not at the scale of the reward that
we've done. And in its absence, what you see is a fairly large grant ecosystem in a lot of other
networks. It makes me uneasy, uncomfortable. It's just very transactional. It can build very
mercenary-like behaviors. It doesn't necessarily produce the outcomes that the chains are hoping
for, the communities are hoping for. And it also changes a lot. You bet on startup A, but actually
startup B was the winner and they went into a different ecosystem. So what you want to do is
have something that's way more responsive to how fast the ecosystem is moving. So in Canton,
in block zero, if this one app is responsible for 35 of the network fees generated in block one,
they're going to take 35% of the application reward. We think that with all the difficulties
that come in helping foster an ecosystem around that, it was important to try to do that and to
try to align the network outcomes with those that are putting in the equity and the sweat and the
tears to make it happen. Time will tell if this was a better way to do things. We're pretty excited
about running the experiment and creating the opportunity to try a different model.
It's resonating with people a lot. You see behaviors change a lot. Ordinarily in other
networks, you get paid to stake and think about what that means. Behaviorally, you're taking
things out of circulation and you're doing nothing and that's how you get paid. And in Canton,
it's the opposite. You have to put stuff into use to work. You have to do stuff on chain to get paid.
And so it's really this behavioral economics that we're trying to engender by doing rewards this
way. To me, the most exciting sign actually of the tokenomics is some fairly large TratFi
organizations sitting with us doing business projections based on tokenomics. I don't think
I thought I would live for that day to say that I'm sitting with some very traditional clients
thinking about tokenomics models of saying like, cool, I have my business model. This is kind of
how I price it. But if I now drive X amount of volumes into Canton, let's simulate the price of
Canton coin, say that we do X amount of the activity. This is how much would be our reward.
This is how much we extrapolate as a revenue. And these are very traditional organizations. To me,
even the exercise is worth it. I think it's fascinating. I think you'll even have business
school case studies written about this time period in this technology, because you look at
how the credit card networks were built or look at how Swift or CLS evolved. And this could just
be the next generation of how community-owned infrastructure ends up coming together.
That's exactly it, Matt. What you said is literally how I pitch sometimes this idea,
is the way we need to think of public network is a network-owned shared infrastructure
that is decentralized. And therefore, if you think about this, if you take an analogy that
this is a decentralized cloud or a decentralized computer, and you're saying, I am driving X amount
of revenue towards that, well, guess what? I want a cut of that revenue. If I'm creating a multiple
for this community-based infrastructure, I want my piece of flesh as a result of that.
Totally. I'm super impressed with what you guys have built and we're excited to be a part of it.
Where can we send people that want to learn more, get involved,
join the community, start building things on Canton?
The fastest way to be able to join the network is if you go to sync.global.
That's the Global Synchronizer Foundation site. There is a series of links you can follow there
about getting a validator or joining the ecosystem and connecting to the network.
We have a bunch of ecosystem partners that help facilitate access as well. So even for someone
who's not technologically savvy, they can join. They can come through a wall provider. They can
come through a number of different entities that support the ecosystem. You can find a healthy list
of who that is at sync.global and also at canton.network. Incredible. Well, thanks for
joining the podcast today, guys. Excited to monitor what happens here going forward. It
sounds like there's a ton of buzz on Canton and really excited just to see the use cases evolve.
So appreciate all you're doing. Thank you, Matt.
Thanks, Brett. Thanks for
listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island. To find out more about
Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc. To listen to all of our podcast episodes,
please go to onthebrink-podcast.com or just click on the tab in our website. Thanks for listening.
