TITLE: Pendle Fixed Yield Offerings and the Shift to Stablecoin Yield (Tien) [Castle Island Ventures]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_TN_Pendle_-_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
This is Wyatt and on today's episode I was joined by TN co-founder Pendle. We discussed Pendle's
fixed yield offerings and the migration towards earning yield and stable coins over other assets.
I hope you enjoy our conversation. Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners
at Castle Island Ventures. All of these expressed by them or the guests on this podcast are solely
their opinions and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures. Guests and hosts may
maintain positions in the assets discussed in this podcast. You should not treat any opinion
expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement to make a particular investment or
follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only. Brought down by bad mortgage investments,
Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be liquidated. The federal government loans
American International Group AIG $85 billion. This is a different kind of market and the Fed
is asleep. The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two
mortgage giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis. The Bank of England has pumped
75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy with a new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry. So out of this
worry, we have something called the Bitcoin. Tien from Pendle. Thanks for joining us on the
podcast. Excited to have you. Would love to hear a little bit more about your background to kick
off maybe. Yeah, thanks for having me. I'm Tien, the CEO, co-founder of Pendle. Pendle is a protocol
for the trading and the tokenization of yield. So we started out in 2020 and eventually found
pretty healthy traction product market fit in late 2023, early 2024 with the whole points tokenization
mania. And then right now we're also very focused on stable coin. But before Pendle, I was part of
the founding team member of Kyber. So I've had the privilege of watching DeFi growth from probably
front row perspective and knew about Compound ETH land, which is now known as Aave from pretty long
ago. So it's been a while, but it's really good to stick around and see how the landscape has
evolved. And I'm just feeling very, very privileged to be part of the movement. Why did you start
Pendle? I was farming shitcoins with my co-founders. True story. DeFi summer. I think we had the first
taste of farming with YAM finance and we were putting in not a lot of money, but maybe two,
$300, something like that. Did you get into crypto for shitcoins and meme coins? So I was
experimenting with different parts of crypto. Between 2019 and 2020, I actually spent some time
helping out with Rockminer, which is one of the larger miners. And then also did DevOps. So operated
an entity that is Google partner. And then we built solutions for the likes of EOS and Tezos,
some of these first generation, second generation at once. Then eventually we saw what happened
with Compound firstly in 2020. And then Yern really popularized that whole yield farming notion.
And then I think what was more interesting was with YAM, they took in synthetics, land token,
comm token, link, and they had all these different tribes pitted them against each other. There's
link marines and synthetics. Yeah, a couple of others. And these assets suddenly became
more valuable because of that interest from community. So overnight, our few hundred dollars
ballooned to thousands of dollars, but unfortunately there was a bug in the governance system. So
suddenly the value collapsed, but it was my first introduction to yield farming.
And then from there on, we were pretty diligently looking out for yield sources. But as much as we
liked the 20, 30,000% APY, there just wasn't a way for us to lock in the rates because we knew that
these APYs we're not going to sustain. We've been hopping around and we're not the only ones doing
so. That 20,000% APY, even if we could lock in at a hundred percent, that would be pretty sweet,
but no instrument there. So that was, I think the first time we started to think about building a
product. I think just for a bit more context, my co-founders and I, we used to work together.
One of them was with me at Kyber and then the other ones, I am token and Digix. So we've always
wanted to build a product, but 2019, 2020, the market wasn't really exactly the best.
Opportunities were relatively limited. So that's why we were doing services because we needed to
find an income source. And without any track record, it was just very difficult to build product.
So when we saw an opportunity to build a fixed rate product by enabling yield bearing assets
to be stripped into PTYT and traded independently of each other, we thought that would be a
meaningful addition to the DeFi landscape. So that was our core motivation. And many would say
DeFi's killer use case in a way is this yield generation and a natural market discovery of
rates that people will lend and borrow in response to what you can then go speculate on
and how speculative people in that economy are feeling. But to your point, it's not the best
user experience when your rates could fluctuate by hundreds of percent on a day-to-day basis.
So to circle back, you guys, to my knowledge, created Pendle with that problem in mind
and the point you're making that you want to offer fixed rate, more stable lending and
better yield offerings in general. That is correct. We also had the benefit of,
we were mostly cross-referencing the state of DeFi to what a mature financial ecosystem should
look like. And we noticed that in any financial market, fixed income products are typically
one of the most important verticals. And if we believe that more money is going to flow into
crypto space, then that vertical has to exist. But at that point in time, some five years ago,
it was largely absent. So that gave us fair amount of confidence to want to work on this
particular opportunity. You mentioned PTYT, can you speak briefly to how Pendle works at a high level?
Sure. So Pendle works primarily with yield bearing assets. So I want to give a little
bit of context to why we decided to work with yield bearing asset. Because in 2020,
Compound and Aave, if I recall correctly, they were already sitting on maybe collectively
$20 billion in TBL. So what we didn't want to do was to compete for liquidity against this big boys.
And what we thought was the right thing to do was to build on top of Compound and Aave. So basically
the AUSDC from Aave or A tokens or C tokens from Compound. So that was the way we were thinking
about it. So taking these assets from Aave and Compound and then strip them into PT and YT.
With respect to A tokens, when you deposit a base asset like USDC into Aave, you get AUSDC in return.
And this AUSDC is a proof of your deposit firstly, and it also operates as a receipt token. So that
whatever interest that your position accrues will be streamed to your wallet. So what we do
is effectively strip out these two functionalities and represent them in PT and YT. So YT is where the
yield accrues to and then PT is where the original deposit gets represented. Now by making these two
parts independent of each other, then we can enable them to be traded independently as well.
So with Pendle, there's a very, very important relationship between PT and YT. In every asset
that Pendle strips, PT plus YT has to equal to the value of one underlying. So PT and YT are
naturally inversely related to each other. That means if PT increases in price, then YT has to
come down in value. So when you add these two components together, they should always equal
to the value of one underlying. This is really one of the most important fundamentals of Pendle.
And with that understanding, you can figure out the pricing for these two components independently.
And how do those adjust in price? What causes them to move? How does that happen over time?
Yeah, so YT actually gravitates towards zero as time passes. And PT, on the other hand,
will increase in value to par. So at maturity, one PT is redeemable for one underlying,
whereas YT will, by then YT would become $0 in value. But the good thing about YT is that
it is typically the smaller component of a yield-bearing asset. And that means when it's
stripped out, it is a lot cheaper compared to the PT counterpart. As an example, using STEath,
let's say it generates for 5% in APY. So in a typical context of PTYT stripping with an
expected 5% APY, YT would probably be priced at around, let's just say 5%. And then the PT
would be the remaining 95%. So effectively, what that means is one PT would be equivalent to
0.95 ETH and then one YT would be 0.05 ETH in value. And the PT plus the YT tier point
equals the price of one STEath. Correct. So the use cases are, broadly speaking,
two types of use cases. With PT, users who are interested in locking in the fixed yield,
they can buy PT. So that means if today the PT of STEath is priced at 0.95 STEath, you acquire it,
hold it until maturity to redeem it for one STEath. So your input is 0.95, holding it until
maturity, the output is one STEath. On the other hand, all the yield that YT accrues will go into
the holder of YT. And then over time, the value of YT will diminish to zero. But the gains that is
paid out by the underlying protocol, in this case LIDL, will accrue to the YT holder. For users who
are more on the speculating of yield side, if they believe that the underlying APY could be 10%
in a year, but right now it's priced at 5%, then they should purchase YT. This regarding the
underlying principle and then just focus on the yield. So the payout is 0.05 and the year's time,
if it's worth 10% APY, then the gain is effectively doubled.
Yeah, makes sense because they're taking the other side of that trade. How do you guys select
for assets that will be listed on Pendle? Yeah, so we're typically very, very thematic
in our approach. So we've had multiple rounds of experiments with narratives. So I'd say with
the launch of Pendle V2 at the end of 2022, one of the first narratives we experimented with,
but wasn't very successful, was NFT. We actually listed Apoin and Luke's Rare, Luke's Token Market.
Were those yield bearing? Yeah, they were yield bearing. So you could stake Luke's to get,
I can't remember the ticker now, but yeah, stake Luke's for example. And then Apoin,
you would be generating more Apoin by staking Apoin. That's the yield bearing part that we
tokenize. They weren't too successful, but in the first half of 2023, we figured out a way to
affiliate the Pendle brand with some of the heavyweights. We position Pendle as the top layer
on Rocket, and then on Rocket ETH, our ETH, and then Balancer and Aura. So we basically tokenize
the Aura and users who will participate in the pool would be entitled to yield from Aura,
Balancer, and Rocket. So the effective APY there was fairly attractive. So I remember it going as
high as 17% at one point in time for ETH APY fixed rate. So that was, I think, the first
breakthrough for us. And then eventually we also pivoted a little bit and structured a narrative to
align with Arbitrum. We also did real world asset towards the Q3, Q4 of 2023. So that was with the
launch of FUSDC from Flux and Sparks SDI. Last year, we were primarily focused on
Eigen and its ecosystem, LRTs. Athena was a big contributor of our growth. And then end of the
year was Bitcoin narrative. So Babylon and its ecosystem. This year, we focused a lot of our
efforts in identifying high quality and promising stablecoin products and have the markets listed
on Pendle. And to your experience, and for anyone who's tried, typically if you want to
earn yield in DeFi, you're exploring 20, 30 different protocols and the rates are all over
the place and fluctuate with you. So to tie a bow on some things we've discussed, what you guys have
done is brought that all to one source. People can access those sources at multiple levels,
as you mentioned with the RE and Balancer. And you've also created this fixed rate structure,
which just makes user experience infinitely better. Yes, we do our best, but it's a lot of learning
and product iteration over time. It didn't start off this way. We also didn't imagine
points to blow up the way it did. We were basically using the same protocol mechanics on a
slightly different product, but the output was much bigger than we thought. So now my view is
that points have already become a very essential part of the go-to-market strategy for projects.
And we want to continue to serve this segment. So constantly improving the product and identifying
the best opportunities for users. Historically, we've had a lot of yield offerings to the point
that you made earlier, APE coin and you earn more APE coin and maybe you earn APE points on top of
that, which can go very well, especially when the market's doing very well. But I think my view is
eventually we will probably collectively gravitate towards something like US dollars and you're
earning yield in US dollars or at least assets, ETH being more comparable where there's more of
a definitive value behind it, or at least you sleep a little better at night earning what feels like
a true yield in that asset. Do you see a lot of the offerings you guys will have being stablecoin
based or blue chip token based as opposed to the longer tail of assets and points?
Yeah, I believe so. I think now more and more protocols generating revenue, they would prefer
to do the payouts in stablecoins or one of the major assets. You're seeing that increasingly?
Yes, we do. We do. There are still implementations like SINA, which has worked out quite well.
Generally, if a user is bullish on the prospect of Athena, which I believe that to be the case,
buying into SINA or PTSINA, YTSEINA, these are fairly good ways to express that view. But that
aside, most of the time we see users preferring payouts in USDC or USDT or even ETH. But
increasingly, I think the preference for ETH has declined. While the price has gone down?
Yes. But at one point in time, protocols that were giving real yield, they had their assets
payout denominated in ETH. So there was one point in time it was very relevant.
Does Pendle have a staking program? Do you distribute fees or revenues to
token holders? Yes, we do. So with Pendle, the fees are distributed to V-Pendle holders.
So in this case, Pendle on its own does not have too much of a utility. It needs to be locked up
between one week to two years. So the duration is fairly flexible. And with that, the user is
entitled to voting rights. And with the voting rights, V-Pendle holder can choose which pool on
Pendle to vote for. And when the pool generates fees, these fees will be prorated and distributed
back to the V-Pendle holder in the form of previously up until recently it was ETH. But
this month onward, it would be USDC. Great. The gravitation towards rewards in
real dollars. Yeah. I just want to ask, you live outside the US. I wanted to ask about your view on
non-USD stablecoins. Or if you think that USD stablecoins are the future.
Yeah. Well, I think in the near term, the demand for US dollar denominator stablecoins will continue
to dominate because it is still the most accepted currency anywhere. And it just makes accounting a
lot easier. I can very comfortably see how much I'm earning in US dollar terms versus ETH. And then
I have to make mental adjustments just to see how much I'm earning for tax purposes,
for personal tracking, various considerations. I think gradually we should be seeing more
forms of stablecoins that are not necessarily USD denominated to show up. In Asia, I believe
Singapore, Hong Kong, there are already attempts to get stablecoins denominated in SGD Hong Kong
I'm sure several other jurisdictions are also experimenting with this stablecoin
implementation. And then Euro, there are a couple of operators as well, to my knowledge,
and we are exploring having Euro market on Pendle. To that extent, I'm fairly certain that there will
be a broader diversity of stablecoins. And then the yield sources will also be pretty diverse as
well. Not just coming from T-bills, but yeah, other forms of real-world asset revenues or yield
generation. Do you think non-USD stablecoins are used in DeFi? Or do you think those are more
fintech products? I would think more fintech. I think they're good for transactions, but in
terms of yield generation, I still think the US denominated ones will be much more accepted.
And what assets are popular on Pendle that are the new ones you're launching currently?
Yeah, so I think the biggest for us is still Athena's USDE and SUSDE. Recently,
with the PT of EUSDE and SUSDE getting listed on Aaveco market, that has increased
the total circulation of SUSDE and EUSDE PT assets. That aside, the newer ones that are
gaining very, very healthy traction, as far as we're concerned, is I would say OpenAidin.
We're seeing over $100 million in TVL on Pendle already. This is after two to three weeks,
and I think there's a bit more potential for growth there. LevelUSD is another one.
Yeah, cool product. They were on the podcast a few weeks ago.
Nice, yeah. SuperUSD is also doing pretty well. I want to say very recently,
Falcon's USDF is also gaining traction on Pendle. So these are, I think top of mind,
resolve, usual. They've done well, quite consistently. We'll just have to figure
out ways to sustain the hype and interest in these opportunities.
Why do you think people like Athena so much?
I think they're not quite the first mover, but I want to say they're definitely one of the most
competent teams that we've worked with. Guy and his team, they have a very clear idea of where
they want to be, and their execution is actually very, very strong. And I think with stable coins,
the playbook is typically more bd-heavy than tech-heavy. So the partnership
lineups that they have is very impressive. And then to be able to have markets set up on
Bybit and a couple of other exchanges. So basically having USD pair, I think that helps
tremendously as well. So figuring out ways to get their asset distributed,
I think that has been a very, very strong proposition of Athena. And I can see them
growing even more from here. Yeah. I don't think you can underscore the value of those partnerships.
We're naturally very herd mentality. People who deposit in DeFi, no one wants to deposit
into the stable coin with $500,000 of supply because you just don't have the trust factor yet.
Yes. In your view, is it the same user who was earning Apecoin yield a couple of years ago that
is earning Athena or earning level USD yield now, or is it a different user profile?
I think the profile has not changed all that much. I think people who are speculating on YTs,
at least from our observation, they are largely retail users because it's very capital efficient.
If you want to speculate on the potential return of say, Athena points, there's a good amount of
multiplier to offer that margin of safety. PTs on the other hand, we see a lot more bigger funds,
bigger ticket size participating in that segment of the market. I think for us, even though the
product is fairly complicated, especially if you don't really understand derivative, I think
understanding Pendle can take a little bit of time. With that knowledge, we were still quite
insistent on targeting the sophisticated retail first, more so than targeting the institutional
users. This is something that we learned over time and it applies to how we go to market for
various stable coins or even something like Boros. With respect to product like ours,
especially because it involves some form of speculation, the target user group that we
should be focusing on in the beginning are likely the sophisticated retail. They are the ones that
typically have higher risk tolerance and then they would be more willing to try out new products and
they would be very interested in that outside's earning. We just have to focus on this core group
of users. Then we realized that over time, when the traction of this segment improved,
because these are probably users who are punting on YT's, it also creates a very good opportunity
on the PT side. When PT becomes cheaper, then the big funds have a reason to come in and scoop up
like the PT's. That's how we established that dynamic and the equilibrium between the YT and
PT side. Do you think that DeFi yields outpace or remain competitive to traditional yields,
especially as on-chain and traditional systems blend together? Yes, I do believe that to be the
case. Broadly speaking, how I think about the yield at DeFi is that it will very likely be
higher than whatever Trefi offers for two reasons. One is that the composability aspect of crypto
assets that makes it a lot more appealing from an APY standpoint. This was something that we
took advantage of when we launched ETH market back in 2023. We were basically stacking up the
yield of Rocket, Aura and Balancer. That would be a lot harder to achieve outside of DeFi context.
With that, very important offerings. I do think that the yield in crypto should be higher,
naturally. Secondly, crypto like DeFi is generally more efficient. I think protocols across the board
don't need to have a lot of headcount to monitor transactions. That should help with the margin.
Without incurring a lot of overhead, the cost to the protocol operator also lowers.
All things considered, assuming status quo on the yield between the DeFi and DeFi products,
I think DeFi, because of the lower overhead and the cost is lower, the effective return
would be more attractive for participants. Yeah, and you have natural capital efficiency
because if you have a staked ETH, you can then take that staked ETH where you're already earning
the yield for staking it and earn rewards for depositing it into a two-sided pool.
You're getting the trading and staking yield. Correct.
What other protocols are you interested in? What assets do you think we'll see emerge
in the near future that you guys would work with or see as being high potential?
I maintain the view that yield on Bitcoin is
quite inevitable, but right now we don't have a very good way to generate yield on Bitcoin.
Is that the number one desired thing for users in your view?
I'm not sure about the broader user base, but at least for me, that would be the case.
Earning yield on stables is attractive and I think it will continue to exist.
But just given the sheer size of Bitcoin right now, to be able to generate, I don't know,
like two or 3% of Bitcoin, that would be pretty sweet. I'm sure there are multiple sources of
yield on Bitcoin right now, but they might not be on-chain. So lending seems to me to be the one
that is most consistent and broad-based. And then we also have structured products. Some of the
OTC desk, they could be structuring products that offer yield on Bitcoin. But beyond that,
I'm not seeing too many opportunities. And then if you look at money markets,
red BTC on Aave, the APY is generally very low. I think that is definitely an avenue that
would be interesting. But in the near term, I'm not too sure what needs to take place
before we see greater adoption in that particular segment.
Yeah, we completely agree. It almost feels like an irony that we haven't created
good yield around Bitcoin when the things that crypto has produced are Bitcoin and yield.
Whereas if you want to go borrow Bitcoin outside of DeFi through CIFI off-chain,
it's typically double digit percent. So it shows you that the yield is there.
It just hasn't been created in DeFi yet. I'm curious, why do people borrow Bitcoin?
Is it too short? That's a good question. I don't know why people borrow Bitcoin. I think there are
a number of reasons. Potentially to have more exposure to Bitcoin, right? Yeah, I'm curious.
You use your Bitcoin collateral and borrow more Bitcoin?
No, I don't. I use it as a sort of value, personally.
Right. I'm saying some people could though. Yeah, some people do that, yes.
Yeah, I think it's just people who want to have as much exposure to Bitcoin as they possibly can.
Okay, okay. Fair enough.
But yeah, the rates are in the 10 plus percent.
I'm told, yes.
What are the wrapped BTC rates on Aave actually that now that you mentioned? I haven't checked.
It's definitely less than 1%. Yeah, I'm not too sure at this point. Big difference, yeah?
Yeah, no kidding. That's quite a spread. We clearly haven't gotten to efficiency quite yet.
On that point about Bitcoin, I also wanted to ask you, how do you view the different
blockchains in making business decisions? Because there's obviously a core difference
when we talk about native Bitcoin here versus Bitcoin existing on other chains.
And how do you guys select for chains and assets?
Yeah, so for us, it's fairly straightforward because we are a second order derivative.
So that means without the primitives and then without the TBL, it really wouldn't make sense
for Pendle to exist. We need deal bearing assets before Pendle would make sense.
So when we evaluate whether to go onto a new chain or a new ecosystem,
we would typically just observe whether there are good assets for Pendle to work with.
And then if they are, how's the TBL traction?
If the TBL traction is still very low, that means it might be premature.
And then we'll give it some time to observe.
And if it grows to, let's say, a couple of hundred million dollars in TBL size,
then it might make sense for Pendle to deploy there.
Because from our perspective, whether it's five mil in TBL or $500 million in TBL,
the effort to deploy is consistent. We still need to work with Oracle.
We still need to maintain an infrastructure to run the products.
So it would make sense for us to prioritize the one with higher TBL,
just because the return would be more meaningful.
Sure. Makes sense. So you guys wait until you tell that there's something meaningful
in an ecosystem and then you go versus trying to go to the new chain pre-launch
and know that it's going to work.
That's right. There's no first-world advantage for Pendle.
You guys have emerged and done incredible things in the space.
I think a lot of people in the DeFi sphere would say to the point that people in conversation
talk about Uniswap, talk about Athena, talk about Aerodrome, talk about Pendle.
Do you think DeFi activity will center around a number of these really meaningful applications
or do you think there will be a longer tail?
How do you think activity spreads out eventually?
I think activities will likely concentrate around a few core protocols.
I think people generally gravitate toward familiarity.
And especially in DeFi, with new products, there are always
risks that you might not be able to see, especially if it's very fresh in the market.
For example, like Athena, it's been around and Uniswap, it's been around for years now.
The trust level for these products is very high.
And the fact that these products have processed many, many billions of dollars
is definitely very valuable.
Relative to a product that has only been around for two days and processed maybe
$100 in trading volume, as a user, you would naturally feel more comfortable with a product
that is a lot more established.
And I think that wouldn't change with time.
And you guys are doing an assessment of how trusting your users will be of those partners,
right? Because when they use Pendle in an Athena offering,
it's two degrees of trust they're implementing.
Yes, which is why I think it's important for us to know who we're dealing with.
We are more open now from an infrastructure standpoint,
but even then, we still need to do our best to do a basic due diligence on the counterparts.
Do you expect you'll one day have tokenized equities on Pendle,
earning yield in DeFi somehow?
Potentially, yes. I would like that, yeah.
Is that in the near future? How long do you think it takes us to get there?
I think it ultimately depends on the protocol that issues equities.
Yeah, so if they tokenize equities on chain,
that is potentially something that we can work with.
And then the yield accrued, the YT would be maybe dividends.
That's interesting. I mean, I hope you can also,
when we have tokenized equities in DeFi, earn yield on them as you would with DeFi assets,
just by providing liquidity to a pool or something along those lines.
Yeah, we'll see, perhaps.
I wanted to ask you in closing, is there anything that keeps you up at night,
or anything that you worry about when it comes to the ecosystem currently or Pendle?
I want to say that as we grow and as we scale up,
because we have also increased the surface area that we're operating,
there are a lot more problems that we are encountering.
But in a way that I can really appreciate, because I think when we were smaller,
we had maybe problems, but they were a lot more miniscule.
Right now, we're operating a much bigger protocol.
And then we also have a lot more problems compared to before.
But I think this is a good sign that we have grown.
And fortunately for me, by now, we have a very, very capable team of operators.
So each and every one of us, we take care of our own vertical.
And that allows me to sleep more peacefully at night.
But that aside, there are definitely a lot of considerations.
How do we continue to scale up?
Because ultimately, I'd like for Pendle to not exist only for two years.
I'd like for Pendle to continue to be relevant for a long, long time,
and grow into new segments, take on new challenges,
and be world-class in our product offerings.
And then thinking about how the ecosystem could change,
what kind of things that we should be anticipating and prepare.
These are definitely something that I think about very much.
That makes sense. And I'll leave it there.
Thanks, Tim, for coming on the podcast.
We'd love to have you back at some point.
And it was a pleasure.
Yeah, thanks for having me.
Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To find out more about Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc.
To listen to all of our podcast episodes,
please go to onthebrink-podcast.com or just click on the tab on our website.
Thanks for listening.
