TITLE: Crypto Investment Strategies and Market Insights (Felipe & Noah) [Podcast]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Felipe__Noah_-_Theia_Capital_-_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
Today, I sat down with Felipe and Noah of Thea Capital.
Thea is a crypto investment fund focused on investing in liquid tokens over long time horizons.
I've had the pleasure of knowing the Thea team since they got started in early 2022,
and I think of them as without a doubt some of the best in the business. Our discussion
touches on identifying opportunities among a wide frontier, crypto's institutional capital base,
and the extent of venture activity over hedge funds, finding the best founders,
and exciting themes going forward. I hope you enjoy our conversation.
The federal government loans American International Group, AIG, 85 billion dollars.
This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
the two mortgage giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing. You print a couple trillion dollars and all
of a sudden people start to worry. So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin.
Bitcoin.
Felipe and Noah from Thea Capital, thanks for coming on the podcast today. I'll start off by
saying I have an immense respect for you guys and what you've built. I'm looking forward to having
this conversation. I think you guys have built an exceptional reputation in the crypto ecosystem
and excited to hear your latest insights with that in mind. I'll start off with, I think there's a
lot of noise in the crypto and crypto asset space right now. Digital asset treasuries,
people talking a lot about that. I think people are trying to assess what has value in the
frontier of tokens, especially when we're going to see more on-chain assets in the near future.
So I wanted to know, what do you make of that current landscape and in that wide range,
how do you guys find qualified opportunities and what makes a qualified opportunity for you?
Why, thanks for having us on. Again, we echo the sentiment, we have immense respect for you
and the Castle Island team. So thank you very much. Yeah, on that question, I'll take a cut.
I know Noah has a lot of thoughts on this, but we've been investing in the market for about four
years now. And one of the nice things about the crypto market is you get to really speed run a
career in investing in terms of your emotional control and like ability to interact with volatile
markets. So when I was doing private equity investing, I would read all these bubble letters
where he talked about the one or two years where prices were really far above his estimates,
what that did to him emotionally. And I'd read that from other investors too,
but it's never really happened in my time in the industry. Things are more or less the same year
in and year out. In crypto, you have massive volatility. So you get to experience the full
range of deep fear when Luna's collapsing and GPTC is trading 30% under and also see people
talking about AI agents and like wonder to yourself, is this a big thing that I'm missing?
And you need to do that multiple times a year. I think right now we're in a profitable period.
That seems to be the case across all financial markets. It didn't start with us,
which is a little different from the other ones or more of an offshoot of what's happening in
broader financial markets and equities gold. Today, the Fed might be lowering rates into
an all time high market. We don't know the backdrop, but it does seem like most tokens
we look at today are overvalued based on our estimate of going forward fundamentals and growth.
And that's not the majority. That's just most things that we're looking at our passes today.
We don't take a view on markets. We don't time markets. We don't try to predict where they'll go.
But we do try to keep our underwriting box constant over time. So we just naturally find
ourselves buying a lot more when markets are going down or depressed because a lot more things just
fall into our box of good value. And we find ourselves passing a lot more in times like this
when there's fewer tokens that fit into our box. Noah, I want to hear your view as well. But Felipe,
just on that, I wanted to say quickly, I completely agree that you see more of these,
what I'd call market regimes in crypto. But I'd also even just say in this period called the last
five or six years with the crypto markets actually been mature. It's been a tumultuous market even
from a traditional landscape. You're a bit older than I am, but I started falling markets closely
in probably the late 2010s. And you look at like 2016, 17, 18, 19 is a lot of the same. But then
you look at like 20, 21, 22, 24, you've seen four or five different markets in a period of as many
years, which is very abnormal in traditional markets. But Noah, please, I want to hear your
views as well. I agree with Felipe's sentiment on the market and that it's generally the opportunities
are aggressively decreased. And I think part of that, if I were to steel man, why the market has
coalesced on this aside from broader financial market dynamics is that KPIs on chain have
generally inflected quite positively. And also there is a regulatory tailwind for our market.
So for example, Athena USDE outstanding is grown from maybe 5 billion to 13 billion over the past
three to six months and ABEA's all-time high bar activity. And so you see KPIs moving upwards,
but simultaneously, I think that given that the base asset prices in our markets play such a large
role in the on-chain metrics for financial applications, you have to attempt to have an
opinion on what's driving those prices. And as you alluded to earlier, I think that the digital
asset treasuries are quite material as to how markets are moving. So for most of 2024 and the
start of 2025, MicroStrategy was dominant digital asset treasury strategy, perhaps not fully
correlated, but Bitcoin outperformed ETH and SOL and a lot of the flows into Bitcoin were coming
from MicroStrategy. And then when MicroStrategy started issuing many different instruments
and its premium to nav started to compress, we saw weakness in BTC and simultaneously we saw DATs
emerge for ETH and SOL. And so there were net positive flows coming from DATs into ETH and
SOL and perhaps a bit of a headwind in the short term to BTC. So I think that probably
is a large driver why ETH and SOL have outperformed in the short term. And given that
ETH and SOL are the largest collateral assets in lending markets and the basis rate, for example,
plays a large component and yields on chain, there are these reflexive dynamics.
I think what I'm personally wary of is that while it's hard to properly ascribe fair value to ETH
and SOL, given that they're not necessarily cashflow oriented assets, it's hard to model out.
You have to wonder whether the current prices are sustainable if the DAT buying pressure subsides
in the short term. So I think that's the other dynamic play as far as you have the KPIs inflecting
upwards. Part of it is tailwinds in our industry. Part of it is flows into the base assets and those
drivers of flows probably are in the midterm unsustainable. So I think there's some risk on
ETH and SOL prices and as a byproduct, a lot of the DeFi projects that use these assets as their
primary generators of revenue. Why, if you don't mind, I'm going to double click on this question
a little more. There's a lot here. I think that the other component that makes this a
tough question right now, and since the election is, I think our thesis at AI is that we are in
the early stages of S curve adoption for the broader technology, the internet finance technology.
So I think in our view in 15 years, a lot of the world will run on chain, whether it's in
lending markets, trading, remittances, stable coins, what you will. And that's obviously,
those are really, really big numbers. So when you're in an early part of an S curve,
you shouldn't be too spooked about something doubling or tripling. It can actually grow 100x
from the base. That is the case, again, for some of these base markets like stable coins,
real world assets, lending on chain. And we now have the green light from the regulatory regime
in the United States to embark on that. It is kind of a clean cut with the situation a year ago,
where you just were now logically these products. The tricky part is that there has been a lot of
money lost in liquid markets trying to get the beginning of an S curve that wasn't there. I think
we've all seen this, narratives where the world is going to change. I mentioned the AI agents as
an example. Honestly, DeFi in 2022 was that super cycle S curve that didn't pan out. Every new L1
is the beginning of a new S curve of adoption. People really lost a lot of money in liquid markets
trying to play that game. But again, you need to be right about it because you lose a lot of money
if you're wrong, things rerate fast and the liquidity is gone on the way down. And you can
make a lot of money if you're right. So I think we try to really balance out the two forces of
understanding. Look, there is this regulatory barrier that's been lifted, and we have this
huge opportunity ahead of us. And there are some big winners that can take advantage of that.
And we'll discuss some of that in this podcast. Names that we've discussed in the past like
Maple Euler, Morpho Camino, these can be big winners over time. But you don't want to get
it wrong. You don't want to mistake reflexive activity, token going up, incentive rewards,
driving KPIs for real growth. Because again, that can go away in an instant and liquidity is gone.
When the paradigm shifts. I think that's a great point.
Things move fast in this industry naturally, and it can go very well and it can go very poorly.
Felipe, to your point, I completely agree with the perspective that something like a two to three x
outcome can happen quickly. And that's not even a sign of a rationality necessarily. It's just
that we're inflecting quickly. And also because the early liquidity behind a lot of these assets,
you have market discovery faster. And that's no different than the sorts of valuation step ups
you saw in early software, you saw in early internet. So I think that makes a lot of sense.
I wanted to pull on a few different threads that you guys threw out already, because I think there
were several points worth double clicking on. One, as we're talking about the way that this
market behaves and token values widely, and Noah, you touched on this. So maybe I'll ask you to
circle back. My viewpoint, you can look at equity markets, you can also look at token markets,
is that there are two very broad ways to view what these things should collectively be valued.
One is a little bit more bottom up where you're assessing what a business should be worth,
you're potentially applying a multiple, whether that's value or growth, you're trying to determine
its own value or relative value. And the other philosophy is a bit of more the top down like
market liquidity, which is how much capital is falling into this market. Stan Druckenmiller
takes a bit of this kind of approach. And relatedly, you'll have these massive asset managers,
crypto has their own, they're just smaller scale, that are assessing whether they want to be in
government debt, or whether they want to be in equities, or whether they want to be in other
sorts of loan financing. And I'd say this market wide liquidity analysis is more of that ilk,
it's looking at where is that capital going to gravitate and how will that impact the valuations
of companies today. So how do you guys weigh these two philosophies of saying whether crypto
protocol should be valued according to their own fundamentals versus as something of a product of
the amount of liquidity or capital in the crypto market? I think that the two ways that you're
framing things are correlated in that I think that liquidity and asset class is partially a function
of the attractiveness of the opportunity. And that is based on bottoms up analysis.
So if a market has a lot of growth prospects and trades relatively cheaply, I'd imagine that
more capital will flow into allocators hands and flow into these assets. I think that as far as
framing of pure valuation, personally I ascribe to the view that the only way to value an asset is
based on future cash flows discounted to the present. I think there are ways to assess what
an asset can trade at any given moment. To your point, I think liquidity plays a large role in
how assets trade. And I think that there's a fair amount of alpha in having a general view on
where flows are going to move. But that's generally a game that we at they have chosen
not to focus too much more time on. Yeah, to pick, I think you have to pick one
if you're building a firm. Are you trading flows or are you buy a whole firm looking for fundamentals?
And we're firmly in the latter camp. We're always underwriting three year models. We hope that we
can hold companies for much longer than three years to continue to execute. I think whenever
we get into a new investment, our hope is that we're looking at something that we can grow for
10 years with the management team as they take on a really big market. And that's been the way that
a lot of funds have made great returns over time. I would argue that the base rate of doing well as
a fund is much higher if you're doing long-term fundamentals investing than if you're doing flows.
It's very easy to blow up trading flows. People have done it well, direct another to your point.
It's a small minority of super judges that have done that well. Whereas the reality is if you go
to any good market P firm, any decent VC firm, you see a lot of people who have done well
playing the game that we're playing, which is picking good companies, good management teams,
good markets holding for the duration of the growth period. And you guys, founders will speak
very highly of you for this, rightfully. So you're very involved typically with companies and
management. I don't know if I want to say management companies, management of protocols or of projects.
Why have you taken that approach besides it being a creative to the investments that you guys make?
And do you see others in the market doing that? Did you see a gap in doing so? Or how do you look
at that sort of investor behavior, a little bit akin to some of those strategies you mentioned,
Felipe, of being middle market or working with folks in a traditional finance sense?
Yeah, I think one, that was both of our backgrounds. So by background with mid-market
private equity, you work very closely with companies. In that case, you'd own 100% of the
company. So basically you're getting every dollar of accretion. So it's a strong incentive for the
sponsor to work with a portfolio company. Noah worked in venture capital. I'll let him expand
on it, but also work closely with companies. But we also just really saw a big gap. We're a liquid
fund. Usually we're buying tokens where unlocks have starter or well underway. It's not a hard
rule, but that just tends to be where we play. And what we noticed is that the VC ecosystem was very
well-served in the market. When you're private still, you have to launch a token. There are a
lot of people in crypto who are willing to talk to you and give you advice and a lot of very high
quality VC funds. Once the token launches, we've noticed that most of those VC funds move on to
the next batch of companies. And these management teams that are now quite experienced in other
markets well, don't have anyone to really speak to, or maybe they'll have one or two people to
speak to on a routine basis. And just kind of showing up as they are and saying, we're happy
to just be helpful, help with blocking, tapping on, recruiting, structuring, thinking through
market dynamics, sharing analysis, and in exchange, let us help you think through strategy questions,
was an appealing value proposition for a lot of these liquid token founders who just didn't have
anyone to speak to anymore. And for us, it's really valuable for two reasons. One is we run
a pretty concentrated portfolio. So any one time there are, try to run between 10 and 15 companies,
but at any one time, they're like seven to 10 companies that are really going to drive our
return for the next 12 months, just because of the way sizey shapes up or growth trajectories
shape up. So helping those companies at all really makes a material impact in our portfolio,
if it can be helpful. And the second is just we get really valuable market color from these
relationships. Because usually where we're playing the hundred to billion dollar token range, like the
market leader in a segment, you're talking to the best founder in that segment usually, or a top
three founder in that segment. And if you speak to them week after week, see what they're concerned
about, see what they're thinking about, you really get a lot of valuable context that you just can't
get any other way. So I think for us, I'm very happy that our portfolio companies are happy that
we're involved, but we're really getting a ton of value from it. It's something that they're giving
us more than we're giving them. So I appreciate them taking a time with us really. Yeah, I guess
I'll add a bit. I think that there's a lot of typically base point brand and network value
that come from being supportive to portfolio companies. And that I think that although we
play in liquid markets, a lot of the time we need the opt in of management teams to want our support
and be willing to hear our feedback. And additionally, a lot of this industry is
network driven, there's very few major players in the space, having relationships, these players
and them feeling confident that when you make a recommendation to work with a specific service
provider to take that introduction, I think is quite helpful. And additionally, when we're
trying to source potential investments, having founders want to speak with us and be on their
cap table is something that's a creative to the fun, generally speaking. I agree with a lot of what
you guys have said, frankly, one point I wanted to come back to was, I agree, Felipe, with your
characterization, I'd almost call it the over venture ization of crypto, everything's a venture
fund. And I think this stems, frankly, to the appetite of capital from the outside looking in,
where allocators are comfortable with a venture structure, because you're shielded from the direct
volatility a little bit, you only have to believe that crypto will be sizable in the future versus
now. But I'm curious, my point there would be, from your guys view, I agree that valuations are
still pretty expensive across crypto liquid markets. You can only infer what that means for
the private markets. When we're overvalued in the liquid markets, and we have a disproportionate
venture participation, that means we have to be massively overvalued in some forms on the venture
side. And with that in mind, most of the capital being on the venture side, who do you guys look at
as the downstream investors of what you're doing? Especially when we have this very disproportionate
capital stack where most of the money is in venture? Important question. And I think that's
some level, that's the heart of the fundamental strategy. We consider ourselves to be the holder
of these companies and our exit liquidity, so to speak, is happy customers paying for a service,
providing revenue to the business. And that model is not innovative, it works well. Look at any
company on the Berkshire's balance sheet. Buffett is not selling to an exit liquidity
larger investor. When you buy Coca-Cola, you are getting your exit liquidity from the customers
who pay Coca-Cola and you get that money back as dividends. Same goes with Apple, same goes with
any major company that's become too large to have your buyer on the back end. And that's why we're
so focused on revenue, cost structure, cash flows, because there is no, right now there is no
downstream investor to buy our tokens on a story. We need the customers to buy the products of our
companies to give us cash, to give us cash flows, to support our valuations, to give us an exit.
So that's really the heart of it. I think this idea of exit liquidity has been a huge
problem for the industry in my view. It's created this haze of just greater fool theory everywhere.
How can I split up a narrative to sell this to some outside investor? When is retail coming?
You hear that all the time. When is retail here? When is retail coming? That's basically asking
when will greater fools come and buy my tokens that have no value for me?
And we just refuse to play that game. We know they're not. We know at our size,
at our size and where we play in the timeline, it's not going to happen for us. So we just really
need to think through the fundamental question on these businesses. One really interesting point is
why is there so much venture in crypto versus liquid? And there's been a lot of debate about
this. There's one prevailing view that there should be a lot more liquid. That's a fair view,
but I think that there's structural reasoning. That's very easy to blow up as a liquid fund.
Internally we call this Bayes-Patience theorem, which basically if you don't blow up and you
just keep building your skillset, at some point you'll be the guaranteed top decile player in the
liquid space. And I think that's true. And basically since we started, there's been a 30%
attrition rate in liquid funds per year. That's an insane number compared to any other kind of
asset class. And the reason why is that the markets are so volatile. It's so easy to reposition
issues around. You can blow up by taking leverage. Of course, you know that. I think in liquid
token markets, taking leverage is basically suicide. I don't know how people do that.
You can blow up by going short. Look, it's very appealing to go short. Sometimes you see something
that's vaporware valued at 5 billion, but then you get a ripple outcome. Your fund is over.
You can blow up through high watermark. I don't know. That's an interesting one people
don't think about. But if you have a team and you have a 10X year on some very speculative trade
and it's down, this literally happened with virtuals, by the way. It peaked on December 31st.
It peaked at carry cutoff. And then it went down 80% after that. And look, if that was a big part
of your fund and you have a team of 10, people are now looking at your fund saying, hey, you're
not going to clip carry for five years. So it's a hard position to be in as a fund. And then people
also just temperamentally, people who invest in run liquid funds often, smaller ones. Many people
don't want to retire. Honestly, we don't want to retire. We want to work till we die. Or at least
I do. I know Noah does too, but I don't want to speak for him. But some people just, you have a
good year, you make $5 million, $10 million and you retire. And then you're out too. So there's
not a lot of liquid funds at track records to go raise that capital. And I do think a lot of it is
preference for VC, the VC valuation policy. I don't even think it's for VC. I think it's for
the valuation policy of getting to the side with the company's worth of recorder and kind of
suppressing it all that way. But I do think a lot of it is just, there's not a lot of liquid funds
that are around. And a lot of people, people have come into the liquid fund industry, but it's just,
the failure rate is so high. It completely makes sense. And I'm aligned. I wanted to touch on your
point about on-chain adoption. Felipe had mentioned this and internet financial systems.
The main question I have there is, I think we see a lot of companies, existing companies,
traditional companies at scale that are discussing putting assets on-chain. And this has been talked
about for a while, but in the wake of recent regulation, Genius and hopefully Clarity coming
up, I think it's much more reality. Do you have strong conviction that Web3, I hate the word term
Web3, crypto native protocols and companies will be the beneficiaries of this? Or do you have any
concern that the next wave of on-chain finance might not benefit proportionately these companies
and protocols that we're so familiar with? I personally lean towards the latter for 90%
plus of companies, but I also think that this is a power law driven market. So I imagine the 10%
of companies that can cross the chasm to offer products to a broader audience will be worth
a considerable amount more than where they trade today. But I think that a lot of the way that
crypto nativism has played out has been very insular. So a lot of the products that have been
built for crypto natives don't necessarily resonate with the broader market. I also think
that's okay. I think that if you look at Hyperliquid, for example, the top 2000 traders
account for a very large amount of revenue. So I think that when you look at a trading platform,
it tends to be power law driven as well, where the most active traders are driving
most of the activity. So I don't necessarily think that for some of these projects, you need
a substantial increase in the amount of users, just because I think that the users that can
use these products and generate a lot of revenue are already using them. I think that depending on
which market segments we're looking at within on-chain finance, some will work as
backend technologies for existing fintechs that perhaps have built in compliance and regulatory
features, have consumer applications that users already have like a defined behavior with.
So I think that's one way to cross the chasm. But in general, I think that companies in the
crypto space today are going to need to find ways to have their products more easily resonate with
a broader audience in a way that I don't think they currently do. And if I added one thing to
that, I would say is crypto teams need to understand that the amount of the work ethic
and level of seriousness required to cross into fintech is just substantially higher than what
they have been used to over the past five years. This kind of remote first, work a few hours,
live in Bali culture that crypto has been in is purely a product of
regulatory hurdles keeping fintech away from our markets. And now that those hurdles are gone,
and these thousand person work 12 hours a day teams in San Francisco and New York are coming
into the industry, you'll have to match that to compete. And there are a lot of founders who do
max that and they work hard and they're thoughtful and they don't try to coast off being a Ethereum
OG or Twitter account. I think they'll do well because they have a head start. But people who
think they can sustain their prior lifestyles and compete with Vlad from Robinhood or it's going to
be sadly mistaken. Yeah, there's no free lunch. No. How do you go about identifying these sorts
of people, the sorts of people that you guys want to work with and the leaders that you want to work
with? I'd say it's not that hard to know who matches the criteria. The Green Oaks founder had
a nice line in Invest Like the Best podcast. Neil Metta? Yeah. He said every bad founder is different,
but all good founders look the same. And I think that's approximately true. Like people who are
hardworking, present well, obviously are doing what they love and building in a market that
they want to build in for decades. And all they think about is their business and their competitors.
When you see them, you know who they are, right? This is Marius, this is Marius from Camino,
this is Sid from Maple, this is Paul from Morpho and those teams, Michael from Euler.
They're people who were born to build these businesses and I would take them over anybody
in the C-suite at Robinhood any day in a one-on-one matchup. And you know who they're not.
People who are trying to retire or chasing narratives. People who are angel investing,
spending half the time angel investing while being the founder of a pre-revenue startup.
People who are just kind of throwing out jargon and hoping something sticks without having a real
view on the market. I think I'd say this is one of the easier things to separate down the middle
and say, these are the founders that can really build a big business and you have founders that
just are trying to maybe extract, maybe sell a dream and get out, or maybe they're honest builders
but they just don't have the work ethic and the commitment that it takes.
Robert Leonard I agree with everything Felipe said.
The only thing that I'll add is that given the stage of companies that we're typically looking at,
I think it's a bit easier for us to identify founder quality relative to a pre-seed or seed
in that we also have a track record for how the founder has reacted to a lot of different
events within their business. So one example that I think has been a pretty good pattern matching
exercise has been founders that have survived a bear market in crypto and are continuing to work
and have not made any unethical decisions or short-term decisions while being put in a top
position. In general that has been indicative of the ethics drive of founder and et cetera.
I think that's the other angle here in that we have the market do a fair amount of
screening for us before we tend to see opportunities just given that we're investing
in projects that are I would say around the equivalent of like a series eight in the venture
space. I agree Noah and I think you guys probably look at these opportunities as much as anyone else
the market but I think there's an underappreciation of people and Michael and Sid who you mentioned I
think are the perfect examples of this but have a lot of stick-to-itiveness and now market reps
and a proven track record. I'm curious for your guys view. I unfortunately think we're at a bit
of a lull in this regard but I think we'll come back in the number of those people that we have
in the industry and that we're attracting. I think there are a couple reasons for that. I think the
meme coin mania had an adverse impact on the talent and profiles of people that we've drawn
into our industry which I think is temporary but I do think it was a headwind and I think that there
are a lot of really interesting things happening outside of the crypto industry when you think
about AI when you think about robotics that also draw talent relative to maybe what you would have
seen three four years ago. So I'm curious for your guys view on how many people are you seeing like
that? Are you meeting where you feel excited to potentially work with them? And how is that a
headwind, the tailwind in your investment approach and strategy? We are not seeing enough of those
people. I know you're not seeing enough of those people either. It's a huge market problem. I think
the first point you mentioned is actually more important. The stigma, meme coins, NFTs, the
TikTok, crypto influencers. It's just become an issue that's associated with a lot of people who
really good builders don't want to associate with, unfortunately. And I think the way to measure that
and no one's done this. I'd like to see it is create the same profile on Hanger dating app
from the same person in one but just do A-B testing in one version he's an AI founder,
another version he's a crypto founder and then just see what the responses are. I know that's
kind of funny but that drives human behavior. It speaks to the issue, yeah. It speaks to the issue
and that's also reflected in how people say that they're fintech founders not crypto founders at
weddings when they're meeting their girlfriend's best friends or that stigma is real and people
know it. What I'd say is I'd like to say that people need to be more serious so it goes away
but that's not going to happen. Permissionless. I think the industry is going to continue being
the way it is and there'll always be some cringe edge of it by nature for a while. What I'd say
to a founder is just think about opportunity to competition ratios. It's my favorite argument.
Yeah, I completely agree. Crypto is one of the biggest opportunities I think in the world today.
It's on par with AI founders. Probably a lot of AI is going to open AI. I think that's a different
topic but I think for founders it's on par with AI. For capital allocators it's on par with
tech or more interesting in terms of opportunity size but there's just not a lot of competition
here. So I think if you are a smart, hardworking, serious person you can find your way in the top
decile of the industry pretty fast if you come into crypto and the stigma issue will be gone in
five, ten years and you'll be in a pretty good spot. So I think it's a great place for founders
to come. That being said, people, obviously new founders don't fully agree with me because
there are not enough here. I agree. I think a lot of people, particularly younger people,
index towards what they think the largest opportunity is today and there's not an
appreciation of, to your point, relative white space within a category, relative competition
relative to the opportunity set. Yeah. It's a very flawed way of thinking.
Yeah. You need to think about how many people are going to be competing with you. That's part
of why I left private equity. It was still a great opportunity. It's every private company in the US
but the amount of competition was just vicious. Yeah. I worked at a $10 million hedge fund. I
thought it was a very hard job. Everyone's trying to do what you're trying to do effectively
and in crypto you have these massive scale market inefficiencies still like the fact that some 80%
of the money goes into venture investing and their private equity doesn't exist as an asset
class. What kind of asset class has that set up? Yeah. Do you know this Michael
Mollison luck versus skill continuum argument? Yeah. It's interesting. I'll say it for anyone
listening. If nobody knows what they're doing, it's all luck. Imagine you're playing Catan or
poker. If no one knows what they're doing, it's all luck. If a few people don't know what they're
doing, all the money will go to the few people who know what they're doing. If you're playing
Catan or poker, any game in the world and you know what you're doing and you're playing with
your 10 year old cousin, you're going to win a disproportionate amount of time. But then once
everybody knows what they're doing and they know the game theoretical optimal move at every step,
it becomes luck again. Because if you're playing with people who know how to play the game perfectly,
again, I don't know how public Catan is. I'd always think of that. If you're playing with
people who know how to play perfectly, it's your role. That's it. That's what determines the outcome
because it's being played at the most efficient level. And I think a lot of industries are at
that all luck because everybody is so good level right now. And I'd say hedge fund, private equity
are getting close to that. There's people who are better, but for the most part, everybody knows how
to build a model. Everybody knows how to run the channel checks and use whatever data sort set is
necessary. So you just don't have that ability to create really large skill gaps with the rest of
the market. And I think in crypto, you can still do that if you come in at the stage market.
Stig Brodersen Yeah, I love that framing. You don't want to be at that table. That's achieved
perfect efficiency. This is a nice segue because another topic I wanted to get into with you guys
is literal processes and creating edge. And I mean, it can be said for very efficient markets,
I think probably even more effective in less efficient or less mature markets. But how do
you guys look at in your context, creating edge and putting into place processes, whether that's
via LLMs, whether that's via other internal tools or processes to give yourselves an advantage?
Yeah, this has been my favorite topic over the summer. I think for a while, we basically
run fully on LLMs right now as a shop. I'd say we've done a really good job of becoming an
LLM first investment manager. And I think that's the beginning of a big trend as well in itself.
So basically, when we started, they actually before TechSPT, believe it or not, we decided
to become a Python first modeling shop. That was what we called at the time. We were like,
okay, data streams here, you can just reuse code a lot. So let's bite the bullet. Let's not use
Excel and PowerPoint like we used to. Let's just build all our models in Python. And that was hard,
but it was worthwhile because you could build a model for Aave one month. And then instead of
going through this process we do with Excel where you have to get new data, put in the model,
I'll stay up to 2 a.m. for four nights in a row, rehash the model, bring it back to IC,
and have a discussion. You could have this much faster process where you just hit refresh
on your Python model and then automatically you have the new numbers going through your model
with a new price. And we've been doing this since we started. So basically all of our underwrites,
we have a live model, you can hit refresh on it and all new data will flow in and we can have a
get on the IC discussions afternoon and say, hey, we haven't looked at this company in a while,
let's talk about it. And on the spot, we're having a discussion with the latest numbers,
updated models. That's already a big improvement over what happens in traditional shops like kind
of use Excel and PowerPoint. But then we got lucky because the end of our second year,
tattoo PT came out and all of a sudden being Python first really started to make a big difference
because we could just build a lot more financial models in much less time because obviously
LLMs can write a lot of code for you. So when you ask what does it mean to be an LLM shop,
I think first it means that LLMs are writing our models. We say, hey, build me a model for
this company. This is how I think about it. Here are the four or five me drivers. I want five cases,
here are the five cases. That's an LLM building that for us. We're talking to the LLM as if it
was a super analyst and give me a comments. When it comes to building analysis, bar charts, line
charts, historical data, data packed work, we'll say, hey, I want to see these 10 numbers. You're
automatically in the position, even though Noah and I are both analysts, we're doing the analysis
ourselves. We're in the position of a senior partner of a private equity firm with 10 analysts
working for him because we can just spend all day asking for analysis and getting them back
immediately. That's a big, big change. If you think about the economics of an investment manager,
there used to be these really nice economies of scale where if you were a billion dollar fund,
you can afford 10 analysts, you could just do a lot more analysis than the three-person shop like
Thea and that's no longer true. You can have 10 analysts, they can't do that much more analysis
than the two of us can do anymore because the LLMs are just so good at getting it done. I'd say
right now in an individual day is doing, I used to work at a shop of 10 people doing analysis
or probably doing in a day what that shop would do in two weeks and working people when they were
10 just because of how efficient LLMs are for financial analysis, especially when you add in
streaming data. I think it also just changes not only the economics, the economies of scale for
firms, but it also changes the way you get to think about doing analysis in the first place
because before the world was analysis constraint. When you were doing a deal,
it took you four weeks to build out a really big model with Poweradec and the Datapack.
You couldn't do 10x time at work. It took a month to do that. So you were going to do the same
kind of high ROI analysis for every deal. You're going to do your LBO model, you're going to do
your three-year revenue model, whatever. Now you can really have five instances of cursor running
five analysis at the same time. So you can start to throw in more and interesting models. And that's
going to be, I think, a hard transition for one that we're trying to really get ahead of. You can
build a traditional TAM model. You can do S-curve penetration. You can do an SIR model, which actually
is a model where you have recovery people leave the product. You can run, you know, it's a lot,
but you can run multiple different lenses and start to get into the idea of like stacking these
models together and averaging them out with certain requirements to get better answers for
your predictions. There's a lot to dissect there, but we've gone from a world that's analysis
constrained to one that is not analysis constrained if you start LLM first and use
those build models. And I think we're really just trying to lean into that. A couple questions and
follow-up. The first one is how many financial firms do you think are operating this way? And
I'll mention a second just so you can address both. But the second is, do you feel like it's
equally enhanced your capabilities on the qualitative research side, whether that's
following the social presence of a company or assessing individuals' online presence?
It's certainly enhanced our capabilities on the qualitative side. The other side of modeling is
every question is just deep research, tech BT, or just conversations with tech BT. That's just a
lot faster too. It used to be that you have to go find an expert in the industry, ask them questions,
set up a call, ask them questions. So on Monday, you want to research the industry. And by Friday,
you have your first cut after three or four extra calls. You spend a lot of money doing that. Now
you just get on with tech BT and you say like, hey, explain the home equity investment market to me.
Walking through growth over the last five years, what are the regulatory issues?
And you can get two hours of doing that or three hours of doing that is a lot of work. There's a
lot of knowledge. And I use tech BT for everything, for everything qualitative, either deep research
or not. I use it a lot on the qualitative side. I'd say on the qualitative side, the big constraint
for people is just the amount of hours they dedicate to deep work a day. And that's an
interesting question that we're wrestling with. Most investment firms are set up around this meeting
type day where you show up, you have a firm-wide meeting, you meet with some portcos, you meet with
some founders, you meet your friends who are also analysts, you do your model at some point during
that day. But the reality is that that schedule was like an evolutionary offspring of a different
time before LLMs where that was the highest ROI would have been your day. But now I think the
highest ROI day needs to include four or five hours completely alone with an LLM, just asking
questions. It's hard to carve that out. So we've been trying to force ourselves to carve those four
or five hours a day out. You just spend with LLMs asking questions because it's by far the most
signal and knowledge transmission per minute. It's hard to do that. Think about getting four or five
hours out of your day to spend with an LLM and doing high effort research. And then your first
question was how many firms are doing this? I think for small firms, we'll see a lot of firms doing it
like us. I think for big firms with hierarchies, it's really hard because the senior team is used
to getting a certain type of output. If you give them Python, they'll be, I don't know what this is.
Don't give me this. Just build the Excel model. We've been doing it this way for 20 years or 30
years or whatever. So I think that big firms are going to be really actually hard causing the cross
because the senior team will just not want to go out of the way to learn a new modeling technique
where a new way of working where they could make a big mistake in the meantime if they miss an
assumption because they're just kind of not used to the way that the code looks on the page. Most
of these people are pretty comfortable. They have a lot of money. They've been doing it for a while.
They have a way of doing things. My guess is small firms, you'll see a lot of them doing it. Big
firms will take a lot longer than people expect right now. Yeah, I think you make important points.
One on the path dependence. This was actually a point of the same podcast you mentioned from
Invest Like the Best with Neil Mehta, but he made an important point where he said a quality of the
best founders he's seen is their ability to block out everything that's not the one or two most
important things at the moment. And to your earlier point, I think the difficult part of taking the
time to set up Python workflows to take five to six hours a day and deep research is not actually
doing it, which I think people might think. So it's saying no to everything else, which could be
your alternative marginal opportunity cost of time. Yeah, I think that's exactly right. I want to
touch on a few points as we start to wrap up here. What do you guys think of the regulatory
environment and how has that impacted your job? How do you look at it on a go-forward basis?
It's definitely been a large tailwind for our industry. I think that we've started to spend
a lot of our time looking at traditional financial markets and understanding where the inefficiencies
are and which ones will be first to tokenized assets or tokenized funds, whatever it may be,
to kind of blend that into how we see the growth of the companies that we're investing in today.
Just because I think that the proliferation of crypto native assets making their way into
DeFi is continuing to play out. It is probably somewhere in the middle of the process. A large
percentage of the native assets are on these various DeFi applications. So at this point,
I think the marginal growth has to come from exogenous assets that are currently on blockchains.
So now that regulatory barriers are starting to be reduced and there's more experimentation
by traditional firms, it's definitely an area that we're trying to get ahead of.
Additionally, around that vein, I think speaking to early movers that are traditional financial
firms coming into the space and looking to get involved. So whether that's Janice Henderson
that's working with Centrifuge or Apollo that's tokenizing Acred, I think understanding how they
see the space and where their interests lie is also important. So I would say it's really
just understanding what the major drivers are going to be for the companies we're looking at
as a byproduct of the regulatory direction moving in a way that we see as being favorable.
Outside of that, it's keeping track of where the regulatory direction is moving. And so you have
these bills that are constantly moving through Senate. So reading through them, understanding
the implications for current market dynamics in case that these things are disruptive. So
the stablecoin side, Circle and Tether are the two major players. Circle historically has had
a pretty big regulatory note, depending on how the genius act played out and other stablecoin
bills played out. It had pretty large impacts as to whether Circle would continue to have regulatory
moat or whether that regulatory moat would be declining. So you naturally need to get ahead of
how those policies may play out as well. So speaking to regulators, I think has
pretty high ROI as well. Yeah, all makes sense. It's going to be an exciting, I would say,
24 months. And I think we're only seeing the tip of the iceberg on the stablecoin and related front.
I want to leave off by tossing you guys one more point here and opportunity to share
some of your experience and beliefs. But I want to know what's one investment thesis or idea
that historically you feel like you've gotten right. One that you held that didn't or hasn't
panned out. And then one that you feel most strongly about looking down the line.
And feel free to tackle those in whatever order. Makes sense.
I can start with one that we have strong conviction in going forward. It's one of
the more exciting ones. I think some good podcast topic. MetaDAO is the future key platform on
Solana. We've publicly made two large OTC investments into MetaDAO. I think it is one
of those really big ideas in HITTO. Can you speak to what that means?
It basically, future key is a governance system where you have a decision. So let's say the
decision is should Apple bring back Steve Jobs as CEO? And then instead of having him vote,
you separate out two markets. One where you trade Apple stock in a situation where Steve Jobs does
come back as CEO. And one where you trade Apple stock in a situation where he is not. The Pepsi
CEO remains in place. And just trust me for now that the markets work. They're true markets
based on that condition. And then you look at the two markets and see where Apple stock trades higher.
And that determines the outcome of the decision. So if in this case, presumably the market where
Steve Jobs comes back will trade at a 40%, let's just say premium to the other market,
and the market has spoken on what is the better decision for the stock price. And that ends up
feeding into the actual decision. Just one really quick example, say Uniswap wants to turn on their
fee switch, or better yet, say Uniswap wants to send revenue to Uniswap Labs. Instead of having
that be a decision made by the team or by a governance vote, you just put up the unit token
and see whether it trades higher in a case where revenue is sent to Uniswap Labs or higher in a
case where that motion fails and it's not sent back to Uniswap Labs. Again, just two examples.
But basically, the reason we think future key is there's two views on future key. One is strong
future key, which is like the market will make a better decision on everything. Just always defer
what you have for lunch or how you design a product, or whether you hire or fire this VP
to the market. We don't believe in strong future key. What we believe in is future key as a board
of directors. So when it comes time to changing CEO, making an acquisition, selling the company,
releasing a second token, restructuring the token, we think that future key markets should decide in
that case. And the reason we think it's so important is because the market essentially acts as the
replacement as an enforcer of token holder rights. So this goes back to something that we talked
about all the time, which is token holder problem. Right now, token holders don't have regulatory
protection, so they get fleeced all the time. Cash flows are sent to the equity entity instead
of the tokens. Teams launch a second token where they have more an outside share just to kind of
make a profit. Teams pay themselves way, way, way, way too much as a way to just withdraw funds from
the treasury. All of these problems are really, really serious problems in token markets. We think
they're existential. I think we've talked about that ad nauseum in the past. They make it very
unattractive for capital flowing to token markets. And a future key kind of board of directors system
solves all those problems. Because all of a sudden it's like, oh, should we launch a second token
where the CEO has 50% of the supply? Market automatically will vote no on that because the
token, the main token will trade lower in the case where that happens. Or should we do M&A with some
centralized exchange where they pay out the team? They pay the team a huge big bonus, but the token
gets nothing. Token would obviously vote that down. It becomes kind of trivial to vote down
attacks against token holders through this mechanism. So we see it as an enshrining of the
token as the objective function for a token business, which is very reported. That happened
in the US capital markets when in a court case called Doge versus Ford, where Henry Ford tried
to donate a lot of profits to charities of his choice. And the Doge brothers, who were investors
in Ford, sued him and said, your job is to maximize shareholder value. And the Supreme
Court of the US agreed with him that's where the fiduciary duty to maximize shareholder value comes
from. And it's worked great in US capital markets over the past 200 years. We think that future key
is that moment, is the Doge versus Ford moment in internet capital markets. And without it,
I think you live in this mean coin trader land where nobody wants to buy and hold because they're
just not protected. And with it, I think you actually have a better mechanism than you have
in US capital markets for protecting shareholders. That's why it's important. Now, why is it going
to take off? Just frankly, if you raise money on future key markets, investors are more willing
to give you the money because they know they're protected. We had an experiment called Mountain
Capital. I don't know if you followed that at all, where this team raised a few million dollars to
invest in Solana Accelerator projects. And they were able to raise through metadata and it went
quite well. And then there was some strategy drift along the way where the team was not going to be
involved as some investors like us thought they would be. Maybe their deals were going to be
different than they initially composed with Solana Accelerator projects. And that's the type of
thing that could lead to a big fight in regular internet capital markets unprotected, or could
lead to very unhappy investors. But in this case, there was just a vote to return capital. And every
single person who held kept their money, kept 100% principle. So that shows you what protection means.
And then as an investor looking at an experiment, I'm way more willing to invest in it if I know
that my downside is I can pull back the funds. If the team, if it's not what I thought it was,
then if the way that we really normally worked is if you invest in the experiment in internet
capital markets, you invest in a token and it doesn't work out well, you're getting a zero.
So the math in that is just a huge difference. But anyway, that's our go-forward idea.
No, anything else on past for present?
Yeah, just on past ideas that I think we've gotten right. I think that we noticed that lending and
credit was a more attractive market post-election compared to volume-based businesses on-chain.
I think there's a few things. There's the regulatory change and what that means for
both sets of KPIs. So when you look at volume-based businesses, meme coins and other
on-chain assets that have price discovery that are on-chain, a very high turnover relative to
their market cap and are generally somewhat ephemerally priced. So they make for relatively
low quality assets, but very high volume-based assets. Whereas the marginal assets that occur
or that exist publicly outside of crypto tend to have much lower volatility.
While you might see a very large amount of assets come on-chain in dollar value,
it won't necessarily amount to a significant amount of trading activity just because they're
going to be lower turnover. We see the marginal assets coming on-chain as being much better
collateral assets than the assets that exist on-chain today, but don't necessarily see it
leading to a substantial spike in volumes just given that the current amount of volumes that
occur on-chain, trillions of dollars a year, is quite large relative to the aggregate amount of
volumes that are going through traditional financial markets. Whereas the total amount
of assets that sit on-chain is a fraction of 1% of the total financial assets that exist broadly.
I think that's generally starting to play out in markets and that volume-based businesses,
even with a lot of activity that's occurred this year, have not gone much past their all-time highs
in Q4 2024. Whereas TVL and Borrow Outstanding has gone to new all-time highs for many of the
primary lending businesses in the space. Yeah, I think it's a great insight. For what
it's worth, I still love lending as a category on a go-forward basis with this in mind and
the number of assets that'll come on-chain that to me are conducive to flowing to those sorts
of businesses. This has been incredible. I want to thank you guys for coming on again,
and I hope to chat with you again soon. Thanks for having us on.
Thank you for having us.
Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island. To find out more about
Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc. To listen to all of our podcast episodes,
please go to onthebrink-podcast.com or just click on the tab on our website. Thanks for listening.
