TITLE: Digital Asset Regulation and Innovation with Sandy Call (Franklin Templeton) [Castle Island Ventures]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Sandy_Kaul_-_AUDIO_V2

TRANSCRIPT:
Today, I sat down with Sandy Call, the Head of Digital Assets at Franklin Templeton, also
serving on the CFTC Digital Assets Subcommittee and advisory boards for the DTCC and World
Economic Forum.
Our discussion touched on shifts in regulatory attitudes, how digital assets will change
asset management, and where innovation will gravitate next.
It was a pleasure sitting down with Sandy and getting the chance to hear her insights
on the industry.
I hope you enjoy our conversation.
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets discussed in this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression
of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by Bad Mortgage Investments, Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be liquidated.
The federal government loans American International Group, AIG, 85 billion dollars.
This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage
giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin.
Bitcoin.
Sandy, thank you for joining us on the pod today.
Excited to chat.
And first off, I wanted to say thank you for all the work you've done in the industry to
push the agenda of digital assets, I would say both in traditional financial markets
as well as in the regulatory sphere.
I would love if you wouldn't mind touching on the scope of your current responsibilities
and your team and what you guys are focused on today.
Yeah, great.
Well, thank you for having me here.
I'm very excited to join you today and chat about one of my favorite topics.
I'm very passionate about the evolution that we're seeing in the markets today and excited
to be a part of helping the future come into being.
So it's a great time to be in the industry.
At Franklin Templeton, I lead our innovation efforts.
So that includes our digital asset efforts and our efforts to think about how portfolios
are becoming more personalized and more customized.
So we kind of see those two trends coming together over time, which is why we've put
them together at Franklin Templeton.
And in addition to working within the firm, I've been the co-chair of the CFTC's Digital
Asset Subcommittee.
I'm on the World Economic Forum Digital Asset Committee and on the advisory board for the
DTCC's Digital Asset Committee.
So trying hard to help influence and create solid and helpful legislation to really get
this industry moving as fast as possible.
And what are some of the main topics that you're touching on across those different
hats that you wear at the moment?
It's been a little bit different in each forum.
With the CFTC, we've been very focused on the role of digital assets in collateral,
particularly looking at tokenized money market funds and then looking at how some of these
new digital assets operate from a bankruptcy remoteness perspective, how we might classify
some of the new assets in terms of utility tokens or NFT and what should and should not
be regulated.
So with the CFTC, the work has been across the industry, both traditional participants
and digital natives really working together to kind of bring a single view of the space
into being.
That started honestly with just getting the nomenclature and the naming right.
With the DTC, we're much more focused on collateral itself and how the collateral systems operate
here in the US and across the globe.
And with the World Economic Forum, they think more broadly and right now they're just trying
to differentiate between digital assets, stable coins, and traditional securities.
So each group has a little bit different focus, but each of them are thinking about how to
bring some harmony in viewing the space across the world.
Yeah, that makes sense.
So it sounds like how assets will be viewed from a perspective of what's the collateral
underlying and creating efficient systems there is a focus.
Are you focused mostly on protecting consumers when you're thinking about how different assets
should be regulated?
Is it about being in the context of existing securities law or how are you looking at if
an asset is backed by real estate, if an asset is backed by treasuries, what classification
they should fall under?
Yeah, that's a good question.
It all starts with consumer protections, right?
That is really why we need these regulatory frameworks.
But I think that when you deal with that first most important mandate, then it really comes
down to are we making sure that the lessons we've learned through decades and decades
of regulatory enforcement, this is in many ways the digital asset space in particular
is such an innovative and such a creative community.
And it has really opened up the possibility of models that people had not been thinking
about, which might have been impossible to do if you were innovating from within the
industry.
Like I said, most of like we're within the industry.
I don't know who could have come up with some of the innovations that today are really
helping to shape the landscape.
But in coming up with such creative solutions, oftentimes people also don't understand why
certain protections have been put in over decades.
So it's trying to find the balance, really capturing the innovation in the entrepreneurial
spirit that has animated the digital asset space and harness it in a way that is as safe
as possible for consumers so that over time, the system builds more and more confidence
and more and more assets can flow into the system.
Today, we're still only at four trillion in digital assets.
And when you look at 105 trillion in traditional assets, there's a lot of room for digital
assets to grow, but people have to gain confidence that the system is going to be more great
for tech now.
Yeah, definitely.
You mentioned personalization and how you approach digital assets, I think, with regard
to your Franklin Templeton work.
Can you touch more on what you mean by that?
Are you referencing the different risk tolerances you might have of users or what do you mean
specifically?
Yeah, so there's multiple layers.
That's a great question.
There's multiple layers to personalization.
The first is, as you said, need to have different portfolio configurations for different risk
tolerances.
Different people have different risk tolerances.
You ought to be able to support each of them in their needs.
But personalization has gone a lot further.
Now, we are really starting to look at what are the specific assets that sit in the portfolio?
Do we need to adjust these based on the profile of the individual?
How are we managing the tax obligations within these assets?
And then as you go even further, you need the spark to think about how our individuals
wanted to use their assets.
As we think about digital assets, more assets come into the portfolio, as by digital forms
of money, we're now sitting side by side with my digital forms of assets.
And so my whole portfolio starts to become bigger or more important as a part of my day-to-day
life, not just an old pre-relate over decades to retire with.
And so there's lots of assets that we need to think about in constructing a portfolio.
And digitization and tokenization is giving us a great opportunity to really get to a
point in the near future, we think, where you're going to have portfolios of a lot
where each person's portfolio is going to be built specifically for them.
And that's a hundred million degree reversal from where we were just 10, 15 years ago on
every portfolio was kind of compiled to be stable building blocks.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I think in digging deeper on portfolio construction with traditional markets, we've seen the evolution
of ETFs and different index offerings, which seem to be the de facto way of storing personal
money long-term at the moment.
Do you think with digital assets, we land on something similar where mostly in the form
of personal accounts, people will be holding index ETF products as opposed to assets like
Bitcoin directly?
Or how do you look at that side of all things?
Yeah, I think you're going to hold both, right?
But it might change, right?
If you think about it, an ETF is just an investor removing a bunch of securities.
If we take the S&P 500, an ETF is around a proportionate share of 500 different underlying
securities.
And the only way you can be able to try to move around sufficiently has been a whole
structure in today's world.
But when you think about tokenization, it's not easy indeed to have fractional shares of
each of those underlying securities as a token.
And then you could wrap each of those 500 tokens in a token and just move the token along.
So I think the answer is both, right?
We're going to both see indexes and we're going to see them side by side with cryptos.
With an eye towards the point you made earlier about consumer protection, how do you look at
what we might see being some of these longer tail indexes with tokens that might be more
volatile or people might not be familiar with?
And at the same time, even today, some of the digital asset treasuries for tokens that are
far further on the risk curve as opposed to Bitcoin.
Do you look at something that will be your responsibility to look at and contribute to
based on your involvement in some of the claims you're on or will those exist in their own
right?
Yeah, I think that one of the great things about the digital asset space is that it has
developed its derivatives market and staking markets right alongside the development markets
itself.
This was something that took a long time to develop in the traditional financial world.
But we've kind of seen that innovation explode kind of simultaneously a little critical space.
And so I think that you're going to get very creative structures on the market within
probably the next 12 to 18 months.
Well, you're going to see structures that take some of that volatility about, you're
going to see structures that will embed income streams and should become somewhat guaranteed
for structured options trading.
All of this, I think, because we've seen such parallel emanations across multiple pools
of the crypto space, we're going to be able to jump very quickly into product structure
that allows even these tail coins to begin to become part of portfolios because you're
going to be able, I think, to appropriately control the risks along.
And again, going back to where we started, people have different risk appetites.
So people may want very risky products in their portfolio and other people may want
very secure hedge funds.
I think there will be room for both types of consumers.
Yeah, makes sense.
How do you look at the market evolution potentially after the passing of a Clarity Act or
Market Structure Bill?
And I imagine that has to do with the attitudes within Franklin Templeton, for example.
Do you think after that we would get sort of a rush of securities on chain and security
tokens or where do you think we go from there?
Yeah, so there's two interesting, I don't call them hurdles, but I would say challenges.
Clarity and regulation has been the biggest hurdle by far and we look like we're finally
working through that challenge.
But then the next challenge is really going to be a technology challenge.
How do I actually create wallet systems at a broad enough level that I can bring in the
millions and millions of people that are currently getting their wallet managed through
traditional love platforms into this ecosystem, right?
That has been one of the visual challenges.
This is why we saw the ETX as a product take off because you have to have a wallet to access
them.
But to really truly get the benefit of the crypto space, we're going to want a wallet
and to get the benefit of the new technology rails, we at Franklin Templeton firmly believe
that a cryptographically protected wallet is going to become our foundational piece of
financial infrastructure of the future.
We're going to move away from all of these fractured account-based structures.
I think the second challenge is of how do we manage no customer anti-money laundering?
Today, no customer anti-money laundering, KYCOML, is a very antiquated process.
Every counterparty to a trade has to be their own.
They keep their own ledgers.
They are responsible for updating their own records.
If the littlest thing doesn't match, there's an issue of trades failed.
There's much, much better solutions using digital ID solutions that are coming out now,
everything from Sohal tokens to Zipfate proofs.
I think in addition to the Clariac, we're going to need a specific reworking of how
we handle identity in this new system and how we handle KYCOML as a result of these
new identity solutions.
Infrastructure and identity and legislation.
Once we have those three pillars in place, we're all set to go.
In a good position, yeah.
Do you think that long-term asset management moves into wallet-based accounts for the most part?
I think everything is going to move into wallets.
I think in 20 years, we will look at wallets as inevitable as people today look at ETFs.
There was a lot of debate about ETFs when they started, and now ETFs are foundational
building blocks of most investment portfolios.
I think we're going to see a similar evolution and the cryptographically protected wallet,
my wallet, your wallet, each of us model of wallets, and that will become how we
interoperate with the world.
We're not going to have checking for counts.
We'll save them so we can best meet the counts, and brokerage accounts, and insurance accounts,
and healthcare accounts, and we're not going to have this fragmented, difficult approach,
which just opens up a lot more financial opportunities for each of us as individuals.
Do you think these will be wallets where people will store their private keys,
or they'll have a Yuba key, or will they be custodial wallets with someone like a
Franklin Templeton, or how do you think they exist?
Yeah, there's going to be a multitude, I think, of models because we're going to get old people
like me that are probably going to be comfortable with self-custody, but I'm going to want someone
else taking care of that key for me, but then there's plenty of people who are going to get
super comfortable taking care of their own keys, and they're going to want to have self-custody,
you know, with crypto, not your keys, not your assets, right?
So I think you're going to have a whole range of models.
I think the key thing to watch there is where do you insurers come from, right? You're going to
walk up to be willing to insure the holding of these wallets, and they may have certain standards
you have to move to get that insurance, so that may end up having more of an influence on where
we actually end up, but I do believe that you're going to see a whole multitude of models. I don't
think there's going to just be one by model, and already at Franklin Templeton, in our system,
we can support self-custody. We do sub-custody of tokens we issue, and we support third-party
custody. So I think that interoperability is going to be evident across everything.
That's great. Yeah, and you can only imagine there will be improved systems for taxes,
inheritance. There are a bunch of really cool financial levers I think you can build onto that.
Well, and individuals putting their own assets into the wall and providing a source of assets
to professional firms like Mom, right? Everybody who starts to build equity in their home, everybody
who is creating digital IP, everyone who's creating physical IP that you can put a title to and embed
that inside of a token. All of these are going to be, I think, added into the portfolio and into the
wallet, and I think individuals become sources of assets in the future too, not just buyers of assets.
In your experience with the CFDC and the DTCC,
how has sentiment changed in the past few months, even year or so?
Yeah, I mean, look, for a while there was a real problem that we were trying to mitigate because
unintended consequences from letters like the SAB 121 rule were really creating an uneven
playing field, right? You had digit natives that were playing by one set of rules and then
traditional financial participants were being constrained by a different set of rules and that
created a lot of tension in trying to get to the right future place for the industry. What has
been nice is a lot of those tensions have eased and there is, I think, a growing sense of we're
in this together, want to come up with the solutions that draw on the best of both sides of the divide,
the regulatory know-how and the ability to deploy these very robust compliance systems
that traditional finance brings with all of the innovations that digital natives bring.
If you can put those two together, that's really when we start to see the foundation for something
going to take place. Yeah, it makes sense. And with that in mind, what are some of the
key talking points that people are talking about now that maybe they weren't before or
what's become realistic? Maybe it's that view of wallets being the eventual asset management
layer that wasn't before or how does that change into action? Yeah, so I think that a couple of the
things that have become much more actionable, right? Obviously, the Genius Act was the first
part of the legislation that passed. So there's been a tremendous degree of conversation and
thinking and planning around stablecoins and this effort to seek clarity on what is a stablecoin
versus what is a yield-bearing asset because in the traditional world, a yield-bearing asset
has certain investment security characteristics to it that I don't stablecoin overs want to be
part of their products, but you've got this messy kind of landscape where you've got entities paying
out rewards on stablecoins. So I think right now, people are just trying to clean up parts of the
Genius Act that left things a little uncertain so that there's more clarity to build the system
around. There's a need for cash and cash-like instruments that stablecoins provide and there
is a need for yield-bearing instruments, but they don't necessarily have to be the same thing,
right? And this is where I think that there are opportunities for traditional players who have
been able to operate in cash-based systems for hundreds of years now to bring some lessons to
the stablecoin provider. I think that you're going to see more innovation around stablecoins
happening now that you've got big banks coming in and now that you've got big financial players
like the credit card companies and things able to come in in a regulatory compliant way,
they are going to bring innovations that the first batch of stablecoin providers
just didn't have, I think, the broader financial view to really be able to successfully navigate.
So I think you're going to see a lot of interesting innovation competition there
because now you've got, I think, a lot more people focused on the space and how to optimize it.
And then as you started to mention, it's already starting to spill over to the next tier, which is
how do I take some of these assets that people trade every day and start to move them into the
wallet-based system, the indices, the ETS, the securities? How do I start to bring these on
chain to start to gain some of the efficiencies that the blockchain offers in terms of settlement,
security, speed, velocity, and also the ability to move some of the fees and the costs that we pay
today? My hope is that where crypto was initially perceived as a potential threat to the US dollar
and US financial system, I'm hoping people are seeing now with the proliferation of stablecoins
that it is a strengthener to those items and that that will help us when it comes to clean regulation
that advantages innovation industry. Yeah, I think that's helping. I think that the big aha moment
still is yet to come. And that aha moment for us at Franklin Templeton was when we realized
just how amazingly efficient public blockchains can be. Our view is that public blockchains are
going to become global utilities on which all records are kept. This idea that an individual
company or even an individual government is going to keep their records on their own
proprietary mainframe-based systems and not on blockchain, we think that's going to prove
impossible in the long run. When cloud technologies came out, a lot of people,
particularly in the financial industry, said, ah, we will never ever, ever go to the cloud. That's
so insecure. And what they found out is the cloud is way more secure than their mainframe-based
systems that can be hacked. And we're seeing that play out in real time for companies that
still try to keep proprietary database systems. And I think that you're going to see that same
evolution in thinking around blockchains. So to us, these public blockchains are the
ledgers for the entire globe in the future. And when that penny drops, when people realize that,
oh my God, I can buy in today to something that every record in the world is going to be kept on,
that's why I think people are going to get super excited. And we're going to really just see
interest in this piece of the globe. Yeah, I completely agree. The accessibility
and the ease of access to global markets, wherever you are, is incredibly compelling.
With that in mind, one trend we've seen at least, especially as we've seen the globalization of
entree markets, but also financial markets, have been a lot of these social engineering
attacks and cybersecurity-rooted attacks. How do you look at that, especially given your roles,
both at Franklin Templeton and with regulatory bodies? Do you expect there will be standards
that will be set by the public sector in terms of here's how on-chain transactions need to happen,
and here's a level of security? Will it be standards set by asset managers or folks in
the private sector? And how do we get to a point where people feel safer and are safer?
Yeah. So I think you're going to have multiple tiers. I mean, I think the first thing to
understand is that a lot of this highest profile failures in the system over the last few years
have had nothing to do with the blockchain-based ecosystem. Yes, completely agree.
So many people miss that when they talk about that, but things like FTX being a harbinger of
the crypto space being unsafe. I'm like, FTX was not operating as a crypto company. They were an
exchange that was operating on traditional rails, and the problems that they were having
was because they were not on blockchain and there was not transparency.
I think that's the first most important thing to understand is that when you are truly talking
about the blockchain ecosystem, most of the issues that have been had had been had either when you're
trying to cross chains or when you're trying to deploy new kinds of updates that haven't been
potentially as fully tested as possible. But I do think you're going to see both a federally
or a government-sponsored set of controls that they're going to insist upon.
Then I think firms like Franklin Templeton and the system we built, we already have our own
sets of controls we've created, and they include very important things. Like right now, our system
operates across nine different public blockchains. What we do is we open wallets for every customer
on every one of those blockchains. If they want to move their assets from one blockchain to another,
we actually do that as a transaction. We transact and close out the position on one blockchain and
open it on another. We don't transfer. We do that because it gives us more control,
it gives us more certainty. We're not leaving those transactions vulnerable to any potential hacks.
I think that that's a level of control we built in because we saw the need for that.
You'll have both self-imposed controls. I think there will be regulatory mandated controls,
and you're already seeing it. You already see Tether had to delist in Europe because of the
markets and crypto assets rule, the MICA rules. They had to delist crypt Tether there. Now,
Tether could make adjustments and get back into that marketplace, but that's just an example of
how once regulatory oversight comes in place, we may need to tweak things about the current system.
I think you made an important point that this is in no way a crypto-specific issue. I unfortunately
know plenty of family and friends that have succumbed to phishing attempts on their traditional
banks. You put out a bad wire and it can happen to anyone, really, so we have to be vigilant.
Look at all these things that are happening with all of these automated payments these days and all
of things they're constantly getting from the traditional banks. It's not unique to crypto exactly.
Yep, or the Bybit exploit. That was just a false webpage from what I remember hearing about it,
which again had no crypto-specific attack vector whatsoever. As you're seeing this market be built
out, do you think that a lot of the technology that will enable on-chain global markets will be
built in-house by folks like Franklin Templeton and larger existing financial players, or do
you think there will be new companies emerged that they'll be compelled to work with, whether
that's Wallet-as-a-Service or Stablecoins-as-a-Service or something of that sort?
Yeah, I mean, look, we built our in-house system because when we got into this space in 2018,
there was no vendors that we could even go to that could regulate and play. So that's one of the
advantages and one of the disadvantages of being a first mover and early into a space. But I think
that over time, this is not an area where people are going to go, I think, build their own to the
same extent we've seen historically. And we've already seen this play out with cloud providers,
right? No one's going out and building their own cloud facilities, right? People are subscribing to
the players that can achieve the scale that will make that cost-effective for others to take on
as a service. And I think you're going to see a very similar model play out where you're going
to have very large, very dominant providers, but those providers, unlike today's centralized
companies, are going to be decentralized and people are going to be able to share in the ownership
of those. And that's why we call them utilities, right? We really believe that these are going to
become utilities that everybody utilizes and therefore the value is much more evenly distributed.
And the network effects are stronger because people are not just users of the network,
they're also the owners of the network. And that's one of the really genius aspects of the
click and recurse system. Yeah, completely agree. In closing, I wanted to ask you a last question,
which was for people listening who might follow the industry from a distance or just see some of
the headlines, what are the topics and questions that you think people should care about? What's
really important? Yeah, I mean, the questions we're getting the most these days is, exclaim how the
value is being, right? And we become very close to this. Once you're in the space, you can go deep
very quickly and you can really spark to get into a lot of the nuance of how different models are
working and it's very exciting and the innovation is happening so fast that you don't realize quite
how deep you've gotten until you start to speak to people who haven't been following the space at
all. And then it's rewind, rewind, rewind and start back at the, look, the way that we have kept
books and records in the past has been very inefficient because each organization has to
have their own and then if you want to do any kind of transaction, you have to reconcile those two
sets of books and records. And now in this new ecosystem, there's just one record that everybody
shares. Like that's always where you have to rewind to to start because that's really at its
foundation, the most important innovation that we've created with this new space. It completely
changes the way that markets can operate and we don't go back to that foundational piece of change.
It's hard to really get people to understand the value they're believing. Yep, that makes sense.
Well, Sandy, I really appreciate you joining and I enjoyed the conversation. Hopefully we can do it
again at some point. That would be great. Thank you. I enjoyed the conversation as well.
Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island. To find out more about
Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc. To listen to all of our podcast episodes, please go to
onthebrink-podcast.com or just click on the tab in our website. Thanks for listening.
