TITLE: The rise of Euler Finance and crypto lending with Michael Bentley (Euler) [Castle Island Conversations]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Michael_Bentley_-_Euler_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter are partners at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets discussed in this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression
of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by Bad Mortgage Investments, Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be liquidated.
The federal government loans American International Group, AIG, $85 billion.
This is a different kind of market and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage
giants that have been threatened by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple trillion dollars and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry, we have something called the Bitcoin, Bitcoin.
The story behind Euler Finance is one of the most gripping in crypto's recent history,
and it's the one that we're going to explore and tell today.
Michael Bentley founded Euler in December of 2020 alongside Doug Hoyt and Jack Pryor
with the intent to build a decentralized crypto lending and borrowing platform out of his
hometown of Leeds in the UK.
Unlike many founders who entered crypto at the time from finance or software, Bentley
actually came with seven years of postgraduate research in computational and mathematical
biology.
That background became foundational to Euler's design, which we'll discuss further.
Bentley drew inspiration from control theory, a branch of engineering and applied mathematics
focused on influencing dynamic systems, like biological processes or machines, to build
Euler's interest rate model.
Where other crypto lending platforms at the time relied on manually set rates, Bentley
and the Euler team implemented feedback loops that allowed interest rates to adjust automatically
in response to market conditions.
As you later put it, what got me excited was the potential to apply my background in
system dynamics and control theory to a new kind of open, programmable financial system,
that being crypto and smart contract enabled finance.
Euler raised multiple rounds of venture capital and launched on Ethereum in late 2021.
Despite immediate macro headwinds, Bitcoin plummeting from nearly $70,000 to below $20,000,
Euler gained traction, attracting over $500 million of deposits and establishing itself
as a key player in DeFi.
Then on March 13th of 2023, disaster struck abruptly.
In just 15 minutes, Euler was exploited for nearly $200 million, one of the largest hacks
in DeFi history.
The Euler team launched a three-week hunt to identify the attacker while managing an
understandably shaken community.
Against the odds, they succeeded.
Not just in tracing the individual, but in opening lines of direct communication.
Bentley ended up developing a personal relationship with the attacker, and through weeks of negotiation
and coordination, Euler pulled off a stunning full recovery of the stolen funds.
At that point, most assumed Euler would fully wind down.
Return remaining capital, shutter operations, and walk away.
But one thing became apparent.
The team widely had ambitions to continue building in this space, even if it would not
be with Euler.
Investors among the core contributors revealed this shared ambition to keep building.
So they asked themselves, if they were to keep going, why not keep going with Euler?
Ultimately, backed by the full support of their investors, the team regrouped and rebuilt.
Eleven months ago, I spoke to Michael just before the relaunch of Euler v2.
At the time, the protocol had only a few stray dollars in deposits and faced considerable
skepticism.
Fast forward to today, Euler has grown to over $2.5 billion in deposits, nearly 5x its
peak before the hack, and has earned a reputation as a leading lending and borrowing platform
across multiple chains and asset types.
It's a story of conviction, resilience, and redemption.
Today, I had the privilege of sitting down again with Michael to talk through that journey
and the road ahead.
For disclosure, Castle Island Ventures is an investor in Euler and remains a strong
supporter of the team moving forward.
Without further ado, here's my conversation with Michael Bentley.
Michael, first off, I want to open by saying I can't speak to the amount of respect that
I and the team have for you and the Euler team's resilience and commitment to everything
you've done in the wake of the experience that you've had over four years.
And we speak about it often as something that we deeply admire.
And it's incredible to have you back after we spoke about a year, a year and a half ago
before V2 launched.
And it's incredible what's happened in that time span.
So I wanted to say that first, and I find an incredibly moving story because in the
backdrop of crypto, which so often functions with anonymity being a norm, you can't tell
who wallets are.
You can't tell who's governing protocols.
There's a deeply personal aspect to the Euler story in that you knew who the person who
exploited the protocol was.
You've spoken about the personal struggle that you had during the time the team opted
to stay together when that was something that was very much in flux.
So it's very unique, really.
And I think maybe it speaks to pieces of a narrative that can be essential in keeping
a protocol like that together in the midst of real challenges.
Yeah, crypto throws up these wild stories and you never want to be the main character in
one of them.
And I think coming into building Euler, I was well aware of the high risk nature of
the industry, but what happened was just completely crazy.
You know, it was really, really awful experience, obviously, but also just a really crazy twist
and turns.
I now saw it just beyond anything I can possibly imagine coming into it, honestly.
And there are lots of human elements, there's always the people behind things.
I think if you just look on crypto Twitter, there's like a gallows humor that people share
on, right, because bad things happen fairly often in the industry or have them historically.
And I think the gallows humor is kind of healthy.
It's part of the culture and I think that's good.
It sometimes does overshadow the fact that there are real people in the background that
are kind of suffering.
Part of the reason we're able to even tell this story is that you've deliberately made
the decision to be a public facing figure within the crypto industry, which I would
say especially early on, many did not.
And it's thoroughly appreciated by people who are users, people who might have had funds
lost by people like us who are supporters of the protocol today.
How did you make that decision and how do you look at that decision versus taking the
road of being potentially more conveniently anonymous?
Yeah, I think it's important to build trust.
It's not something I'd ever considered.
I don't come from a kind of cypherpunk background, I wouldn't say.
You know, I was an academic before this.
No one's anonymous.
I'm an academia.
Although they might effectively be academics.
Names are out there though.
Yeah, the names are all on the internet, but no one cares about them.
So it wasn't part of the culture coming into it, so I wouldn't have considered it necessarily.
It was kind of new to me coming into the industry to see that so many people had that.
And I completely respect that, especially given all sorts of reasons to want to be anonymous
or to reduce the extent to which your name is out there.
And I respect all those reasons.
But yeah, for me personally, I felt like when you're building something that does involve
money and people are putting their trust in you, it's important for people to have
somebody that they can kind of go and say hey to and interact with that can see that
it's, you know, somebody that's thoughtful and trying to do things the right way behind
the scenes.
It's a little bit scary.
Everybody in public as well, when exploit happened, I'm sure people must know the amount
of kind of crap that you get during that period is quite intense.
Yeah, how did you deal with that?
Well, I've always just had this philosophy that obviously people are going to do that.
They're upset.
People are also one of the merchants online and people like to do it for fun.
You just can't let it get to you.
Ultimately, I've got friends and family at home who know what kind of person I am, my
colleagues know what kind of person and they're the kind of relationships that matter to me.
So I kind of tried to brush it off a little bit.
Some of the things were particularly awful.
You know, my son was born like four days before the exploit.
Right. And some people decided to use him in some of the messages.
It's terrible.
I thought that was particularly overstepping the mark, but there weren't too many like
that.
You have to be pragmatic, realistic and accept that that's just part of internet culture.
So trying not to let it get to you too much.
Was that a lot of the community that responded at that time or how did the community at large
respond to that period?
Oh, it was a real mix.
I mean, I would say most of the feedback and the responses were really good.
I mean, we got lots of really sympathetic messages from other developers and builders
in the industry on Telegram.
Obviously, we'd been trying to build things the right way.
So I love that we were very friendly with a lot of the security community as well already.
And they knew that we tried to do things the right way.
And this wasn't through carelessness or anything on our side where we deliberately cut corners
or anything like that.
So we had a lot of sympathy.
I think a lot of respect from people in the industry already.
So I got a lot of supportive messages, honestly.
And then on social media, you got a lot of interesting theories, right?
There's people saying that maybe it was an inside job.
Maybe it was me.
Yeah.
That kind of thing comes up and you see it.
I remember my wife at home was reading some of this stuff.
She was saying, I don't know how you don't respond with pure just anger and rage.
I said, it's just not helpful.
It's just a lasting.
When an incident like that happens, you need to focus entirely on trying to get the best
outcome possible and letting silly people and their messages online get to you is not
helpful and it's not a good use of your time to respond to all that.
And I also said to our team, where are some people like writing messages back?
And I said, it also sends the wrong signal.
It sends the signal to people out there that you think that that's more important and that
you've got the time to do that rather than trying to solve this case, right?
So I said, yeah, we just like it bad on communication when it comes to responding to people's messages
online.
And that's how we approached it.
How did the team stay together at that point?
Well, I think we all like each other and all decent people.
So there's a really incredible story within OILO actually that involves a person that
was kind of surreal, bazillions during that time.
We hired my co-founder, does lecturing, universities and colleges and things from time to time.
And during one of his lectures, one of his students came up and started talking to him
afterwards showing a lot of interest in cryptography and blockchain and so on.
So he invited him at all points to become an intern at OILO and yeah, he went on from
being an intern to being a smart contract developer and a senior developer and a sort
of leader of the smart contract team and so on.
Anyway, during that period when the exploit happened, I remember me talking to the team
frankly about their roles and the likelihood that they'll stay on and everything.
And this individual Casper, he said to us, I'm not going to stop until we catch this
guy.
We've got a chance to catch this guy.
We have to catch him.
Don't care about the future.
Let's focus on just catching him.
And yeah, he's now actually CTO of our company.
So we decided to promote him to CTO.
My co-founder is more like a presidential, plays more like a presidential role.
So he's one of the people that was there in the trenches with us during that experience.
And most of the team that we've got now, we're all there as well.
So the team really have stuck together through thick and thin.
I think we all like each other, all have a lot of respect for one another.
It's a very smart team.
It's very strong engineering culture.
So yeah, I think that really helps.
I've been in other war rooms and things trying to help out other projects.
And sometimes I realize how lucky we are that we all feel that way.
There was no finger pointing.
There was no like, oh, you own this type of code.
We all just wanted to get the absolute best result and we were hyper-focused on achieving
that collectively.
And that's actually not the norm when you go into some situations, you realize there's
quite a lot of finger pointing and disagreements.
So we're very lucky that we have that kind of team, I think, and that kind of culture
at Euler.
Yeah, it's special.
He's CTO come head forensics and FBI and the whole thing, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Now he's done fantastic at Euler, but that's the kind of culture we have.
It's very egalitarian.
We don't have like big hierarchy, I wouldn't say, within the organization.
It's fairly flat, so everyone can challenge and be challenged by the people.
And I think that kind of fostered mutual respect and open dialogue and things.
So yeah, people tend to enjoy working here, I think, and thrive when they do well.
We like to promote them.
An element of the story that I thought was interesting was you guys decided to keep the
Euler name and brand as opposed to potentially doing a rebrand.
What went into that?
It was a big discussion.
I'm not going to lie.
stakeholders and professors to get their thoughts on this.
There were a few different schools of thought.
The reason we kept it was because, actually, we did have a strong brand name before that.
We had a brand that's associated with engineering and building quality products and security
and all the rest of it.
So we had a good brand name coming into it, and then that was part of the reason why the
response from the broader community was so strong, I think, after what happened.
So that was one thing.
It's a good brand.
And we didn't want to then kind of water that down and make it look like we were hiding
because we didn't feel like we have anything to hide, right?
This is a really tough industry to build in, and you can do everything possible to secure
a protocol.
But unfortunately, there's no guarantees in life, and it's a particularly challenging
industry to build and like software in.
We've seen it's happened to many, many good projects down the years that have suffered
security issues.
So there's nothing to be proud of with a security incident, obviously, but there's also not
necessarily something to be ashamed about as well.
If you've done your best and tried to build in good faith and everything and something's
happened, I don't think you should necessarily try to hide from that.
And that was one thing that we didn't like about doing a rebrand was it might look like
we're trying to sort of hide this and pretend that like, oh, there was some different thing,
and we're now like a completely new team.
And that didn't really fit with our ethos about being really transparent about things.
We tried throughout the whole process to be as transparent as possible.
Overall, we just felt like that was a better way to continue to build the brand and build
trust is just through being really open, as open as we could be about everything that
happened and focus on that and fully own it as part of who we are and our story and our
history. But yeah, I mean, it's a strange brand because on paper, it's not a great
one, actually, in terms of just from a pure marketing standpoint, the name Euler is
derived from a mathematician from the 18th century, is pronounced differently to how
it looks like it should be pronounced and all the rest of it.
So there are many good reasons for branding and marketing standpoint, I think, to ditch
it and to put some shiny new name on.
But just in terms of the history and who we are and what we've done, I think we felt
like it was the right thing to just keep it and move forward with our story.
I think you make an important point, too, if you're innovating and I think this goes
in crypto or beyond, you expose yourself to some level of risk when it comes to what
can happen. And you guys early on had built a truly innovative, dynamic interest rate
model. And I've loved reading and learning about how that was informed by your
background. But it seems to shy away from innovation if you're going to do so in
fear of what can happen.
Yeah, I mean, everybody that's doing anything innovative takes risk in our industry.
The risks are quite high, I would say.
They're not necessarily as risky as they would be if you were building an airplane or
a new type of car. Right.
So there's definitely high risk industries out there.
Innovation is a matter of life and death.
It's not quite true here, but the innovation is very challenging and opens up a lot of
potential for risk. That's absolutely the case.
That doesn't mean that you shouldn't try to innovate, though.
It's a part of human history is trying to push boundaries, trying to move things
forward. Nothing worth doing is ever easy.
So that's where we're at. I mean, I come back from a background in science, right,
where a lot of the history of science is just littered with mistakes and things that
went wrong. But science moves the world forward and ultimately has made the world a
better place for quality of life and things.
And I think in crypto, not necessarily didn't have that direct impact on quality of life
necessarily, but it is a really powerful thing in the background about making
finance more efficient and transparent and open.
All the rest of it, I really do believe in.
There's lots of kind of garbage going on in crypto at the same time.
It's just a technology at the end of the day, and it can be misused and abused and all
the rest of it. But there really is something, it sounds a bit trite, but there really is
something there to it. Yeah, that makes it kind of an interesting and challenging
environment to work in, but definitely one that's worth doing.
Yeah. Identify that attitude as a strength that you and the team of Cooley had since
early on. And in that vein, I wanted to ask if you look at the full lifespan, including
the exploit of the protocol, is it similar or the same strengths that you think Euler
V1 had and that you guys had from the outset that carried the success that you've had in
the past year? Or was there something different?
Was there something that you learned? How would you compare how that evolved?
I think it's mostly the same strengths and the same attitudes that we've had since we
started, honestly. I think that nothing has changed too much.
I mean, we still build in the same way we used to build.
Obviously, you adapt and you learn things over time.
But I think it's the fundamentally the team has that just kind of engineering,
scientific sort of approach to things.
And I think that that served as well. We're very meticulous, very thorough.
We're very collaborative. And that's really how we built Euler from scratch.
People ask us a lot about why we've had success and part of it just comes down to the
technology. I think people sometimes forget the line crypto because there's so much
that's dependent on hype and tokenomics and all these other things that have nothing to do
with technology. But in Euler's case, that's not really the case.
We didn't come in with any hype. We came in with like anti-hype.
We came in with intense skepticism about whether we could survive and thrive again in
the industry. So, yeah, that anti-hype means that we had to have something that was
really offered something unique and new and that was innovative and help people achieve
things that they couldn't achieve with other tech and so on.
So it's really been a tech driven period of growth for us.
I mean, we've also pushed out on other areas, of course, in terms of business development
and other innovations. But yeah, tech is the main component and ultimately comes back to
who we are as people and what we like to do, which is build things and engineer things.
I like the point that you make about the just technical and building first attitude
that you guys have. And I think you alluded to the fact we certainly go through periods
in the industry where I don't think that's the case, where I think a lot of the people that are
drawn to the industry come from backgrounds that aren't necessarily aligned with pushing
forward the best technical outcomes.
Would you like to see more people from, say, a mathematics, a computational
biology background who are coming in with maybe a problem solving or an efficiency
perspective and a more robust technical background into the industry?
Do you think that's something that we would benefit from?
Yes, I know. I think you need to make sure people on the technology front.
I think we already do have a lot of people like that.
I mean, they just tend to not be as visible.
I would say, like even Euler, there's not many people that are visible and people sometimes
talk about Euler like I'm Euler and that's just because I'm on Twitter and everyone else
isn't. And if I could not be on Twitter, I wouldn't be on Twitter, frankly.
You know, it's not the environment I feel most comfortable in, but it's important for me to be
visible, I think, for the project.
But yeah, the rest of the team here are not that visible.
I think that's true more broadly in the industry.
You know, the incredible tech around a lot of the podcast calls people use, but most
people will never see all the little micro decisions that went into structuring things
the way they are.
There's a lot of deep thinkers and sort of academic types and computer scientists,
mathematicians and things building all the stuff behind the scenes.
And so, yeah, I think we do have enough of them.
It's how you bring that stuff to market, though, and how you do the sort of growth phase and
how you bring how you distribute the technology.
There's lots of interesting things about our industry that make it easy for the wrong
types of people to benefit and then to kind of miscommunicate the way that things work.
I mean, just one thing is it used to always be the case to like the forks.
The forks are protocols where somebody else does all the hard work to build it.
Someone just forks it, slaps the token on, and then they go out and sell it.
And the average retail person, the average person that's not paying attention day in,
day out, can't tell the difference between the original and the thing that was forked.
All they see is it's a protocol.
It allows me to swap token A to B, right?
And that's all they see.
But I think it's good for the industry when the people that build the technology are the
ones that benefit from it financially.
The forks are the ones where it tends to be the ones which are most heavily marketed
because A, the team that built them don't have that like engineering background.
They're more specialized in marketing.
And B, they don't necessarily have to spend all the money on the building the tech.
So they have a bigger budget to spend on the marketing.
And they're maybe not there for the long term as well.
I sort of believe that builders tend to build things partly for the upside,
but also partly just for the sheer love of building stuff.
That's certainly true of ATI.
And I think that's true more broadly in the industry as well.
People, engineers just like engineering stuff.
We like tinkering and building stuff.
And we would probably be doing it whether we got paid or not.
There's a desire to solve problems, right?
Yeah.
And it's fun, right?
There's part and parcel of it.
So I think, yeah, builders are one of the best parts of the industry for sure.
But you can't just build things and expect people to come.
There's a really painful lesson a lot of people that come into the industry learn is
you also have to have distribution down and figure out how to communicate these ideas
and the technology to the end users.
And so, yeah, there's other skill sets which I think are definitely needed.
You make a great point that there are a lot of brilliant people in the industry
who have that luxury of not being seen.
And they take that view and hear you and I are talking on the podcast.
Yeah.
Well, this is distribution.
You have to communicate, right?
And talk to people and let them know who you are, what you're about,
what your motivations are and so on.
But yeah, a lot of our team, they're not anonymous,
but they might as well be in some sense because they don't have a public presence.
And so they're the ones behind the scenes doing a lot of the engineering work.
Do you think Euler today would look different at all had it not been for the Exploit?
Yes. Yeah, I think it'd be far more successful.
I think prior to the Exploit, Euler was taking market share from competition
and growing very, very quickly.
And I can't emphasize how much of a setback it was.
I mean, it's so much harder to come back than to do it the first time around.
Is that because partners were reluctant to work with you?
Or what were the major parts that set back?
There's a whole bunch of factors.
Firstly, liquidity is a powerful asset.
And so when you have liquidity, it makes your protocol more useful
than when you don't have liquidity.
And that grows over time.
It's one of these things that just takes time to build.
So having liquidity, resetting that back to zero,
having hit almost a billion dollars of liquidity before.
I think we're saying from zero and then having to start from scratch.
That's the challenge.
I think Lindy and having the Lindy effects around for longer
is another one slightly related, but it's more about just like the security
of the protocol being battle tested with funds at risk for a longer period
shows that it's less likely to be exploitable than something
that's just brand new and shiny.
There's also a lot about distribution in terms of tokens.
Some of our competition have benefited massively from launching a token
with a high valuation that they can then use in deals,
negotiations for partnerships.
If you have a high valued token that the people are optimistic about,
putting a million here, a million there for deals or partnerships,
it's absolutely nothing, right?
It's just, you know, if you've got a billion dollar valued token,
you can use that very, very strategically to grow very, very quickly.
But when you come back from the grave, basically, there's no value in the token.
It's a liquid.
So it's not really an asset to the project anymore.
It's almost like a liability, honestly.
It doesn't necessarily help the projects grow.
And so tokens, whether people like it or not,
are a very important distribution mechanism like shared ownership
that you can get in the early growth phase and project
when people are optimistic.
And it's a really, really important mechanism.
And some of the best projects in crypto have used that massively to their advantage.
And we haven't had that luxury, unfortunately.
So, yeah, I think almost certainly,
Euler would be a much bigger, stronger protocol today
if the exploit hadn't happened.
What resonates with users from Euler as a protocol?
When you take your average user, what do you think attracts them?
And you mentioned a landscape of other players in DeFi.
What stands out?
I think Euler has always been a place
where we've not shied away from offering, for better or worse,
and it's not necessarily the right way or the wrong way,
but we've not shied away from offering more advanced features on the protocol
and allowing people to do more advanced things.
So we've always had a user interface
that allows people to batch transactions, for instance,
and build more complex positions,
then rebalance those positions more easily.
And so, yeah, some of our competitors are really just adding this today.
In 2025, right back from 2021, we had a lot of these cool features.
So that engineering, I think, mindset that we had benefited us
because we attracted people that really appreciated
those kind of more advanced features
rather than just a deposit or just borrow.
There's more you could do.
The protocol is more efficient, I think, in many ways, more capital efficient.
You can see that in the charts. There's higher overall utilisation.
People tend to prefer borrowing on Euler than other platforms.
In some scenarios, not all of them.
Certainly, if you're borrowing from something like Aave,
they have a lot more liquidity.
Sometimes it's easier to do that because of that,
but on the purely technical front, I think we make borrowing easy on Euler.
We show people lots of information about their borrowing positions
and statistics and things that aren't shown in other protocols,
which help people manage risk a little better.
We don't penalise people when they're liquidated.
We try to minimise the costs from liquidations as much as possible.
Whereas if you get liquidated on other protocols, it can be really devastating.
You pretty much usually get wiped out, I would say.
Whereas on Euler, that's not the case.
You usually are able to keep almost...
Most of the net asset value of the account is sort of retained
after the liquidation rather than going to liquidation fees
or liquidation penalties.
So, yeah, I think borrowing overall has been a big thing
that people tend to like more on other than other protocols.
And when you build out product functionality
or build out markets on the protocol,
do you do it with a bit of a sandbox mentality
of this is functionally something very good,
or do you do it more with a view of,
okay, people will do this because they'll want to go then do this on Pendle
or EtherFi, or you're thinking about how those use cases are reported elsewhere?
Good question.
I said this is something that we learned from V1.
Firstly, I'd say that just our engineering style
is to always try to build things in this modular way.
So we try to abstract things and then package them up into a lot of modules
that you can then recombine.
What's useful about that is that the things that come up
that people end up asking you for, that you didn't necessarily anticipate,
they can usually be done out of the box by then recombining the modules
and allowing them to interact in different ways.
So you can sort of use Euler as more of like a kit,
a developer's kit for building products.
So we don't start with the products as such.
We start normally with the underlying engineering in mind.
Some people say that's the wrong way to do things.
Like many people advocate for building specific products for specific users
and just tailoring to a particular use case.
But I would say we do things the other way.
We sort of build from the ground up and tend to try not to anticipate
all the possible use cases, but assume that we can hopefully build
any kind of product on top, any kind of credit-related product
on top of the kit that we got Euler.
So we hope to not have to keep releasing the V3, V4, V5 and so on.
We want Euler to be as flexible enough to add new features,
some of which I'm sure we'll talk about in the pod today.
Yeah, so that's our general philosophy.
What have you learned about user behavior over that time?
Oh, it's changed massively.
I mean, the use cases that people used to do in V1, mainly do in V1,
are still there today, but there are many more use cases today.
So in the early days of DeFi, people were mainly using lending protocols
to borrow against volatile crypto assets.
And they did that for a few different reasons.
Sometimes they want to borrow against the ETH or Bitcoin
because they want to go long.
So they would like them to redeposit back into ETH or Bitcoin
and amplify their exposure.
Sometimes they wanted to use their assets in the real world.
So they just borrow against it and then go buy a car or pay for something
in the real world, or take advantage of another opportunity out there in DeFi.
It was mostly loans against volatile assets in the early days.
And I think in that change with state ETH, when state ETH emerged,
we had yield-bearing forms of ETH.
And that was like the first time that we really started to see growth
of a different type of trade, which was more of like a carriage trade.
We deposit something that's high yield, then borrow something that's low yielding.
And then you can scale up or down your exposure to the yield,
basically by redepositing back into the yield-bearing asset.
And that's just completely exploded as the main use case,
I'd say, for lending borrowing protocols in the past 12 months,
which is why protocols like Euler and also Morpho have done ever so well.
During that time, it's just that these kind of carriage trades
are now the main use case for lending protocols, I would say.
People are arbitraging interest rates and capturing yield from stables,
rather than just borrowing against volatile assets.
Which I look at as positive, to go back to the root of our discussion.
It's market efficiency rate discovery.
Yeah, I mean, it's interesting.
I think there's this tendency a lot in foul finance,
where you have assets that are volatile.
And what people want to do is they try to compress that volatility
as best they can.
Now, you can always compress volatility,
but you can't, in my opinion, fully remove it from the system.
So, you know, if you've got something that's volatile over 12 months,
you can make it less volatile over 12 months,
but there might be one really big spike in that time.
And I think that's kind of what's happening with the change in crypto today.
Things like Athena and so on,
we're still benefiting from the yields on some of these volatile assets and things,
but we're finding ways to effectively compress the volatility
into products that are more predictable, I would say.
At least on short timeframes.
And then people focus on trading the rates with those,
rather than focusing on directional trading,
where things are going to go up or down.
They try and turn that into a yield-to-bend product instead.
So I think that's like a common trend and overall, probably a good thing.
But one downside to it maybe is that it allows for more leverage
to build in the system and like less predictability in the long term.
If you wanted to go leverage long on Bitcoin,
there's probably a ceiling on the amount of leverage you could take.
Let's say it's 5x or something, right?
There's like a sane amount of leverage that you can potentially take
if you earn some Bitcoin.
I want it to go long.
But if you have a stablecoin that's yield-bearing,
maybe you get 20, 30, 40x leverage out of that stablecoin.
And yeah, over a short time frame, that might be perfectly fine.
When it does eventually unwind, it can do so maybe even more validly
than the people who are trading on leverage on Bitcoin.
So yeah, I think there's trade-offs with the way the industry is moving.
But yeah, certainly stablecoins and yield-bearing assets
work quite well with lending protocols, I'd say.
And the two have very strong quarter market fit with one another.
I want to just highlight that point because I think for people
who aren't active in DeFi or crypto,
one of the most underappreciated aspects of the market
is how speculative people are on stablecoins
through looping to the point you make.
I think people think of speculation as being on meme coins and altcoins,
but I fully agree on the point that you're making
that people are speculating on stablecoins.
Yeah, it's a huge trade.
But it's the same in traditional finances, too, right?
It's nothing unique to our industry.
Yeah, trading rates, basically, and leveraging stablecoin yield,
I think is probably the biggest trade in the market today.
Maybe it's already the biggest.
Certainly, if it's not today, I expect it will be in the nearest future.
To touch on another piece of this related market structure,
you've probably seen the same.
We've seen a lot of these new CDP or collateralized
debt position protocols coming about, which to me makes it clear
that people have a desire to hold exposure to their altcoins,
but to essentially park them somewhere and instead do all their financial things
with a stablecoin, which gets to your point of they want to take
whatever stablecoin they've now received and maybe go to rate arbitrage
on it with a different stablecoin.
My question seeing this is, do you think eventually
we get to a point where the altcoins almost become more idle
and most of actual DeFi finance happens using stablecoins?
And I say this, seeing you go on Euler or Morpho
or on these platforms now, the top assets are stablecoins.
They didn't used to be that way.
So I'm curious if you think that is the vehicle that DeFi is happening with,
at least from a transaction perspective, long term.
Yeah, I think so. I think it is.
It's just much easier to move these stablecoins around and also to handle them
and to price them.
And so, like I say, there's no free lunch.
I do think that over a longer time horizon, we will see some of them
DPEG quite violently or wind.
So there are definitely challenges with these things.
There's no free lunch in finance ever.
But they simplify the day to day experience rather than holding
strictly volatile assets.
And I think that's why a lot of traders prefer these things
and why we're seeing so many step-by-step growth
in that particular sector at the moment.
Thinking over the longer term, it feels like non-USD stablecoins
or FX markets could be something that could be interesting
for a platform like Euler.
Do you see that as being a potential DeFi reality?
I do over some time horizon, but it's not today.
Why is that?
I mean, I've talked to people a lot about this particular topic
and whether or not people will start creating FX like markets on Euler
and now other swap.
But yeah, there's been some challenge.
I mean, like the dollar is just so powerful.
It's the currency that everybody likes to use.
We use for international trade.
No one wants to hold euros, it seems, on chain at the moment.
I think Circle have made a really big push with C
and it hasn't really taken off today.
I don't think it'll be like that forever.
I think at some point they will start to move
and we will see more FX like trading.
I mean, there's more and more assets are coming on chain all the time.
We're seeing stocks, equities and tokenized funds and everything.
So it'd be strange to me if FX doesn't grow.
But there are some disadvantages with on chain trading, off chain FX.
The amount of leverage that people can take is absolutely huge
and the order books and everything very, very efficient
and things are a little less efficient on chain, I would say, at least today.
That makes it a little harder perhaps to trade these things
as profitably as he can do with off chain.
So maybe that's why they're yet to take off.
But some things just take time.
We look at Pendle, right?
Another protocol like ourselves that has been around for a while
and it didn't really do an awful lot until one day it did.
And it's one of the most important protocols in DeFi today.
But for at least a year, maybe longer, fixed rate protocols were everyone would say.
There's just no appetite for it in crypto.
And I think you see that with the product lines as well, you know, options
not really come to crypto yet, not really come to DeFi in a major way.
But yeah, some things just take time and you reach a critical mass
and then they just really take off and bloom after that.
So, yeah, I wouldn't rule it out for FX, but it's not there today.
That's a good segue talking about some of these functionalities
that maybe haven't played out and some of those areas of the market
that you can explore.
What's your vision for Euler as a platform over the longer term?
I think it should be a liquidity hub, a kind of a DeFi super app effectively,
where it holds significant liquidity for people and provides a lot of functionality
for doing different types of trades or different types of financial operations
on top of that liquidity.
So the underlying technology is very flexible.
It allows you to build all sorts of different types of credit products on top,
whether that's variable or fixed rate is something that we got coming in the pipeline.
And I think fixed rates are going to come back in a very big way
in DeFi in the fairly near future.
I think all the major lending protocols are taking a look at this
and rethinking how it should be done.
So it will be interesting to see how that changes in the near future.
But yeah, certainly you can build a very good fixed rate protocol to Boiler.
I think that will be coming.
On the swap is something we added fairly recently and it's still in beta,
but it's been looking extremely promising as a new technology on top of Euler.
Can you talk about how Euler swap works?
I'm very excited about it.
I mean, as a backdrop to say about some of the pain points of existing decentralized
exchanges, one of which is that when you put liquidity in a DEX and it's not traded on,
it's not utilized within the given block, it's just tidal liquidity.
And that's just wildly inefficient to do that.
Even on blocks where you have trades, most of the liquidity isn't utilized,
just a small percentage of it is.
That's just so inefficient to do that.
The rest of that liquidity should be earning yield in some form or another.
And that's how it works in TradFi.
If you're trading on some off-chain order book,
the liquidity isn't literally sat there in units being moved around in the order book.
It's actually sat in the background somewhere in some account,
earning yield for people.
And then they set a lot of the order books at the end of the day or whatever.
And Euler swap solves that problem, effectively pulls the liquidity inside
lending or credit markets by default, optional for ALP.
But by default, that's the assumed position.
And then liquidity is then used just in time to supply liquidity to the market for swaps.
And so when you LP on Euler swap, you earn yield by default from lending and borrowing first.
And then if you want, you can also then switch on the option to earn swap fees
and then extra sources of income from the swapping.
So it's just much more capital efficient from that standpoint.
But another major pain point of DexMarkets is borrowing against your liquidity.
People want to do this for all sorts of reasons,
but it's just not really been a solved problem.
In my entire time in DeFi, people have always wanted to
see if they could borrow against their Uniswap LP tokens.
I remember people trying to do it in V2 and it didn't work there because it was very hard
to price the tokens and there were all sorts of exploits associated with the Uniswap V3.
It's arguably even harder because now the tokens were NFTs and they were even harder to price
or to be able to use this collateral in a fungible type of collateral lending protocol.
So Euler swap to Dex where the liquidity by default sits inside credit vaults.
If those credit vaults are accepted as collateral in unsigned other vaults,
then that gives them native borrowing functionality.
So when you LP and Euler swap, not only do you earn interest on the assets from lending if you
want, but you can also natively borrow against your LP positions.
And this doesn't require any fancy logic in terms of moving the LP tokens around into new markets.
I think it's just native functionality you get out of the box.
So ultimately what happens is, let's say you want to LP ETH and USDC,
you put ETH into an ETH credit vault and then some interest there.
You put USDC into another credit vault and interest there.
And then you as the account holder would install like an AMM curve on top of your account.
It's kind of a bonding curve that defines the rules that swappers have to obey.
And the swappers, what they're doing when they come in and swap is they're effectively just
rebalancing the amount of ETH and USDC in your credit accounts now.
Someone sells ETH, you get more ETH and you take some USDC out and vice versa.
And if you want to borrow now against that position,
you can because ETH and USDC are collaterals in Euler and lots of our markets.
And so you can just go away and borrow against that position.
Now, what might you do by borrowing?
You could maybe borrow and supply even more liquidity.
So you can sort of leverage the LP token and multiply the yields that you're earning.
You might just borrow against it as a hedge.
You might want to hedge out the ETH side of the position.
And I think you don't want to be as exposed to that side of things.
You might want to borrow just to access funds and liquidity to go use elsewhere in the EFI
or some of the strategy.
But yeah, lots of reasons to borrow against things.
And it all comes out of the box with EulerSwap for free.
Yeah, it's a very, very powerful rebalancing primitive people's accounts on top of Euler.
And yeah, I think it's going to completely change the way that the DEXs work.
We launched some beta testing faults using the Dow's liquidity.
And in under two weeks, I think we've done over a billion dollars in
trading volume on the USDC USDT pair.
One of the reasons for that was because when people swap, the swap sometimes can be used
as collateral to borrow the output amount.
So an LP position of a million dollars can be used to simulate the same effective liquidity
as a $50 million LP position in Uniswap.
And then you leverage swap fees and everything on top.
But you just provide overall much deeper liquidity by using the borrowing functionality of the LPD
tokens.
So yeah, it's a very, very, very powerful new primitive, but I'm very optimistic about it.
And I see one immediate use case given everything we talked about.
It'll probably be a great stable swap, I imagine, right?
Because of all the stablecoin liquidity that you have.
Yeah, hugely beneficial for new projects that are starting stablecoins as well.
I mean, the current system for most projects starting a stablecoin today
is the very first thing they need to do is somehow get DEX liquidity.
How do they get that DEX liquidity?
Well, they often have to pay for it.
People often ask me, why is LPing on oil or swap immune to permanent loss and all
these toxic flow and all this of it?
And the answer is no, that's not where the innovation is.
People aren't LPing all the time because they are profitable LPing just on the swap fees.
People are LPing stablecoins because they need DEX liquidity because without the DEX liquidity,
it's hard for them then to go on and build credit markets for their stablecoins.
And if they don't have a credit market, then the stablecoin isn't that useful, really.
So DEX liquidity comes first and foremost.
What's unique about oil swap, I think, is you can build a credit market in parallel
to a DEX market and you can actually do the whole thing in one go in a much more
capital efficient way than people have done this in the past.
You don't have to spend weeks building liquidity on a DEX and pay millions of
dollars to incentivize that liquidity either from private LPs or from public LPs.
You can effectively deposit the assets, collateralize them, go and borrow from a
USDC market, for instance, the deposit so that you get a leveraged LP token.
You'd now grow the DEX liquidity.
Once you have DEX liquidity, you can now connect that to all the vaults and other
things in the system where you can start to grow your credit market.
It can all be done in a matter of days or a few weeks rather than taking months and months
and costing millions of dollars to bootstrap things.
It's just much, much cheaper and faster.
Yeah, I think it's brilliant and inevitably we'll see a lot more
stablecoins having to bootstrap.
And so it's, to your point, really attractive for them.
I want to touch on a couple more questions, maybe pivoting a little bit.
Do you still have a desire to build out these primitives?
Is this what you want to do sort of for your infinite game?
Or do you ever want to go back to academia?
Or how do you assess where you'd like to spend your time?
I really enjoy the engineering side of the industry we work in.
Yeah, I really, really enjoy it.
I mean, most of all, the swap was my engineering ideas and things.
So using stuff from my background, doing a lot of maths and things.
So I really enjoy that side of things.
Yeah, running in companies is definitely also challenging and quite stressful,
I would say.
It's certainly a very different experience from being an academic
where you just work very much.
Well, you work as part of the team, but you're kind of in charge of your own things
and you don't necessarily have loads of people to answer to and people's livelihoods
and the things dependent on you and so on.
So yeah, it's quite different.
I wouldn't go back to academia personally.
A division about what academia being an academic will be like
that didn't really play out when I was there.
I enjoy some aspects of it doing the core scientific research I really enjoyed,
much like I enjoyed in engineering stuff at OILA.
But the day-to-day stuff, the amount of bureaucracy involved in being an academic is enormous.
It's more about writing research grants and writing papers
than it is about doing core research, I would say, these days.
I think that whole industry probably has some evolving to do
in order to keep up with the way the world's working.
I think probably AI is changing a lot of things,
but we'll completely shake up academia as well.
I wouldn't go back, but I still sort of romanticize some elements of it, I suppose.
Just being able to sit down and just chew through you,
like challenging, problem-solving stuff day in, day out.
I think it's really fun.
The point you make on having to lead a protocol,
in some ways you personally become the victim of your own success, right?
Because the larger you get, the more attention you have,
the more commitments you have, the more inbound you get.
How do you balance the rest of your life with that reality
and your family and alongside your commitments to the protocol?
It's a good one, yeah.
I'm not going to lie, it's quite challenging,
but families are a natural balancer, I think.
Before you have a family, you always think,
how would I possibly have time for a family?
But once they arrive, the time kind of sorts itself out for the most part.
You realize all the areas of life where you can trim stuff away,
stuff that you just used to take for granted.
They really prioritize a lot of things for you, I would say, naturally.
And they're a really great leveler when you have a job like I do
that's quite stressful and quite full-on and 24-7,
going hanging out with family on the weekend, just doing stuff with the kids.
In those moments, you don't have time to worry about the nitty-gritty of the crypto markets,
to what's happening, whether Bitcoin's up or down, people are sad or not.
For me, I think it's been really helpful, a big distraction from work,
because if I didn't have that, I just would work non-stop.
I find it very kind of addictive, I suppose, like a bit urban,
maybe a little bit of a workaholic.
I've often found that I don't need that much sleep
compared to the average person.
I heard recently there's a genetic variant where maybe some people need a couple of hours less.
Yeah, I don't know whether I have that variant or not, but yeah, I'd be quite happy
just spending every hour every day doing work of some form or another.
I think that's how I got into crypto in the first place.
I just used to do, even after I finished work with my day job as a scientist,
I would get home, maybe watch some TV with my wife and she'd go off to bed.
And I'd be like, well, I've got a good few hours now to do something by myself.
And I would just do hackathon competitions.
Plus crypto markets are 24-7, so it's great for anyone.
Yeah, that's it. Learn a new programming language.
Yeah, try and build a market-making bot.
I just used to do all sorts of hacky things and that's how we got me here, honestly.
Yeah, I'll be doing that for the rest of my life. I'm quite drawn.
Michael, I greatly appreciate you coming back on to talk to us.
And like I said before, I have a deep respect for everything
you guys have done with the protocol and everything ahead.
Oh, thank you. Yeah, I appreciate it.
I can't believe it's been so long since we last talked.
It sort of feels like yesterday.
Yeah.
So yeah, it really shows how fast the year has gone from that perspective.
Just so much has happened.
But yeah, it's great to be back, especially with lots of positive things to say,
lots of growth to talk about and showcase this time around.
Yeah, it's only the start.
Yeah, definitely. Yeah, there's so much more to come.
I think both from the industry, it looks very promising right now,
but also from ourselves, we've got loads to come.
So yeah.
Well, thank you again and have a great rest of the day.
You too. Thanks a lot.
Thanks for listening to another episode of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To find out more about Castle Island, visit castleisland.vc.
To listen to all of our podcast episodes, please go to onthebrink-podcast.com
or just click on the tab in our website.
Thanks for listening.
