TITLE: DeFi Risk Management, Transparency & Institutional Adoption (Corn) [On the Brink]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: OTB_-_Corn_-_Yearn_Finance_-_AUDIO_V1

TRANSCRIPT:
Welcome to On the Brink.
My name is Henry Harris,
and I'm an investor with Castle Island Ventures.
Today on the show, I'm joined by Corn from Yearn Finance.
Yearn Finance has been building DeFi infrastructure
and providing verifiable risk-adjusted yield strategies
since 2020.
Corn and I discussed how DeFi has evolved
since the collapse of Terra Luna in 2022,
and how recent volatility in the market
once again highlighted the need for proper risk management
and transparency in DeFi.
We also touched on the state of cybersecurity
for on-chain products,
as well as what it's going to take
to get non-cryptonative institutions
comfortable interacting with DeFi.
Without further ado,
here's my conversation with Corn from Yearn Finance.
Matt Walsh and Nick Carter
are partners at Castle Island Ventures.
All of these expressed by them
or the guests on this podcast are solely their opinions
and do not reflect the opinions of Castle Island Ventures.
Guests and hosts may maintain positions in the assets
discussed in this podcast.
You should not treat any opinion expressed
by anyone on this podcast as a specific inducement
to make a particular investment
or follow a particular strategy,
but only as an expression of their personal opinion.
This podcast is for informational purposes only.
Brought down by bad mortgage investments,
Lehman, which has 25,000 employees, will be liquidated.
The federal government loans
American International Group, AIG, $85 billion.
This is a different kind of market,
and the Fed is asleep.
The federal government is stepping in
to stabilize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
the two mortgage giants that have been threatened
by the housing crisis.
The Bank of England has pumped 75 billion pounds more
into Britain's ailing economy
with a new round of quantitative easing.
You print a couple of trillion dollars
and all of a sudden people start to worry.
So out of this worry,
we have something called the Bitcoin, Bitcoin.
Well, Corin, welcome on the podcast.
Appreciate you coming on.
Thank you for inviting me.
This is Pulpy Taco's favorite podcast,
so I could not miss it.
I only attend the really high signal stuff.
This is why we do it
for Pulpy and all the other listeners out there.
What we wanna get into today is a state of the union
on decentralized finance on DeFi,
and maybe just to level set your background,
just how you got into crypto and DeFi,
and we can go from there.
I have been in crypto full time since November of 2021.
So if you remember back then,
that was the top of the top in the past four years.
I had been following crypto for a long time,
and I was working with Cisco Networks' largest partner
for 10 years in the data center space,
building networks and data centers for hospitals.
Someone from Yearn was in a telegram chat with me,
and they knew that I did a lot of technical selling,
and the IT space was starting to slow down
because especially in healthcare,
every time someone deployed Epic
for their medical record system,
they had to go and buy a ton of hardware.
Upgrading to Epic was definitely
their biggest capital expense
like a hospital ever goes through.
Epic made the transition to be a web app.
The customers don't need to buy storage and area networks.
They don't need to buy all new Cisco switching
and stuff like that.
So I saw that space starting to slow down,
and getting involved with Yearn back then,
we had over $6 billion of deposits.
We were in the top five for DeFi projects,
and we had 125 contributors, I think, back then.
It was a big project,
and there was no way that I was gonna say no
to that opportunity.
So I took it, and I'm still doing BD for Yearn today.
I'm responsible for all of the customer experiences
that we have.
We have a B2B approach still.
We want to get people to build on top of Yearn vaults
and consume the tokenized strategies that we have.
And if people are not getting answers really fast,
they feel unsupported.
They'll go to one of the other
nine million vault projects out there.
So my responsibility is to make sure that they're happy,
make sure they're coming in the door.
We get a lot of inbound requests
for strategies to be made still,
because they know that if they get a Yearn strategy made,
someone from the Yearn security team
is gonna have to do due diligence on it.
They're gonna have to do at least something
like a light audit on the code base
and make sure that it's safe.
It's my job to also qualify those opportunities
because there are a lot of them,
and I can't bring every single one of them to the curation
or security team to vet.
I have to make sure that they've gone through my filter
before I pass it on to them.
Those come in all the time for strategies,
for collaterals for our curation arm.
It's always been busy.
Ever since I joined four years ago,
even if we're not churning out all these strategies,
we're definitely evaluating them.
Customer support is something of an unsolved problem
within the crypto world.
Who do you call when you're dealing
with a decentralized protocol?
So it's good to know that you're on the other end
picking up the phone.
In terms of the history of Yearn,
you mentioned starting back in 2021,
it was, to my knowledge, it was around even before then.
What's kind of like the history of DeFi protocols
and how they've evolved through 2021 and all the craziness,
and then maybe all the way up to today in your experience?
Back when I started and we had 120 contributors,
we had this mantra that Yearn was very open
and anyone could join.
And to be honest, we still have that same culture today.
One of the people who actually went on
to build Yearn Vaults v3, Schlag,
we came across him in a hackathon, I think it was.
He submitted a strategy that he created
and we thought that he was a former Yearn contributor.
It was so perfect.
And we had 50 other people who had made strategies
and every single one of them was very low quality.
And the truth is today,
if you build something on Yearn and we think it's really good,
we will seriously consider hiring you.
But we had to be more selective
about who we're onboarding as time went on.
The bar kept getting higher and higher
and that's a really good thing.
We started out that way back then.
And when I first joined, we had all this money,
we were making $100 million in profits in 2021,
I think it was.
And then the first thing that happened was UST.
The yields were 20%.
Everyone was like, you gotta make a strategy for UST
or you're gonna lose deposits.
And guess what?
We started losing a ton of deposits
and we refused to make a strategy for it
because it was not a structurally sound project.
We knew that something was going to happen.
We knew that it was like a bit of a Ponzi.
How did you sort of figure that out?
Just for context, UST, Terra Luna collapse,
ended up losing tens of billions of dollars.
Do Kwan was the CEO.
But how did you guys in the moment see through that?
Anytime a stable is backed by a governance token,
it's not gonna end well, it's impossible.
The governance token is gonna go to zero at some point
and whether the market likes it or not,
there was no way of avoiding it.
And we saw that happening.
It just was best for us to not play a part in that
and just see our vaults just leak value
to go to other places.
And at the same time, that is also when the risk-free rate
and treasury rates started to go up.
There was a pending bear market.
It was definitely on the way.
We saw that DeFi yields started to go down.
The way that we get most of our yields
is from supplying to lending markets.
And when people are not borrowing,
the yields are gonna go down.
What happened was we started to lose even more TVL
for people going and wanting to get that risk-free rate.
It's understandable, 100%.
Yearn, however, was not going to bend in our culture
and our values and we were not going to start onboarding
risky RWA yields and we need to have everything on chain
and that's how it is for us.
We need everything to be verifiable.
This was also a significant headwind
coming into 2022 for us.
So are you taking a step back
when we talk about strategies and vaults
and people were clamoring for UST vaults?
Essentially what people are asking for here
is they have a stable coin
or maybe they have Ethereum on chain.
They wanna put it to work somehow
and they wanna turn that into a yield bearing asset.
And what Yearn does is almost like a portfolio manager,
so to speak, curates these strategies
that involve other DeFi protocols,
maybe infrastructure that Yearn's built,
maybe infrastructure that Aave or Morpho
or other lending protocols have built
and kind of in a risk managed way,
derive a structured product on chain,
maybe you could say that gives the end user a yield
for their stable coin that they started with.
Is that the right way to think about it?
Exactly.
There are a list of prerequisites
that we need to make sure are checked
before we go and build a strategy for something.
But yes, the idea is that we have a multi-strategy vault.
Say we have a vault for USDC,
we go and deposit that USDC
into a bunch of different lending markets today,
like Fluid and Morpho and Aave and wherever else.
And we rebalance all of those strategies every hour
depending on where the best APY is.
Terra collapses 2022, we entered a bear market
both with respect to token prices
and just general value that's locked in DeFi protocols.
We started to come out of that into late 2023, 2024
into this year.
Take me maybe up to date to the current state
of DeFi vaults within them.
Then we can start to talk about the events
of about a month ago, October 10th,
there was this mass liquidation events across crypto.
And in the past week or two,
some bodies have started to float to shore within DeFi
on the higher risk end of the spectrum
when it comes to vault management and tokenization.
Back a couple of years ago, like you said, 2023, 2024
was like the depths of the bear market.
It was very quiet.
A lot of the developers that we were working on in crypto,
some of them left, some of them went on to go back
to doing what they were doing or like start
other new projects.
I think it was a talent drain.
As I was trying to get people to build
on top of urine vaults, I was getting the feedback
that what you built the urine vaults V3 is clunky,
hard to use, difficult to understand.
But truth be told, it is because everything
that we were doing is programmatic and on chain.
And you have to be a pretty good developer
to bring something to market that's not gonna get hacked.
Some folks decided to make an easy button for vaults.
And that easy button is turning your vault into a multi-sig.
And basically you have this product
where all of this capital flows into
and you have a bunch of different people
who can decide to build transactions to send your money
wherever they want, whenever they want.
This is banking but worse basically.
That's our perspective on it because this gives people
the opportunity to still be anonymous,
but to also have full control over your funds
and for you to have no visibility into the decisions
that are going on or even where your funds
are going to be going to if they're going to deposit
those into a black box, like a centralized exchange
or something like that.
There's a lot of structural issues
with those multi-sig five projects.
Even more so, they were able to align stakeholders
better than we were.
Originally when Yearn took off,
everybody knows about Wi-Fi Token, that's Andre's baby.
Yearn was the first fair launch project.
What that meant was people could farm Wi-Fi Token.
I was working on this project.
Now it's called Katana Chain,
Polygon brought to market along with us.
Last year in 2024, I was going around
and talking to a lot of like VCs and liquid funds
about coming on board Katana with us.
And it was like a really good experience for me
to jog my memory and just see how many people
were involved in Yearn way back then.
These VCs, a lot of them still say,
we got into crypto because of Yearn.
Yearn was one of the projects that we invested our time
and focus in way back then.
That meant that they had Wi-Fi Token,
they had stake in our success.
And when the bear market came, token prices went down,
they dumped their bags and Yearn does not have
a token print and we have a finite amount of tokens.
Those are the incentives that these new multi-sig projects
started to bring to the table and started doing raises.
And now you have these liquid funds and VCs
more aligned with the success of those products
compared to using Yearn.
This is headwind number three that started to hit us
and we're still experiencing that right now.
It's hard to think about this problem because
is someone gonna come to market with a new competitor
every single time and reload the incentives?
The mercenary money is just gonna
float into that new project.
Is this gonna be the cycle forever?
There's kind of this finite amount of capital within DeFi.
If my option as an allocator is,
okay, I can get 8% maybe from this Yearn vault
with no token rewards on top of it,
or I can get 12% from these riskier strategies
on this newer vault and on top of that,
maybe an additional 5% to 10% of APY
and then you have this token that they're a newer protocol
so they have a newer token and they're giving it out
to people as sort of incentives.
That's not necessarily a web three native idea.
Every time I open my Lyft app,
there's some new reason why they're gonna pay me $5
to use Lyft instead of go to Uber,
but it's just more invasive it feels like within crypto.
That's sort of what is happening here
and you have these things that are somewhere between
what you say sort of opaque banking opportunities
and unregulated hedge funds really,
where people were depositing their stable coins
into sort of a black box for a group of three people
that were claiming to be a DeFi protocol
to just go and loop into risky strategies
and the way those strategies would be represented
on the market is in a token.
So let's use one of these tokens
that has recently blown up in the last couple of weeks, XUSD
and one of the problems with a lot of these is that
the value of them gets pegged to a dollar
and this sort of rebase the yield on top of it.
So if it's a 20% APY strategy, it'll start at a dollar
and the value of that token will grow
as the yield accrues to it.
Even if these protocols aren't calling their product
a stable coin, so to speak,
just by including the letters USD in the name
or pegging it to a dollar,
I think sometimes it gives users
probably a false sense of security
that what they're putting their money into
is not volatile or not risky
and really under the hood, there are risky things happening.
What we saw with XUSD, I guess,
you'll have better info on this than me
is that the value of the token completely collapsed
once people realized that the curators
or the managers of this protocol had lost a lot of the money.
So what kind of happened there?
This all started for us back in May.
There were a bunch of people shilling this new project.
We took a look at it.
We had actually talked to them previously the year before
about doing some real-world asset strategies with them
and it didn't end up working out.
And then we saw that they had this vault
and we found their D-Bank and we looked at the TVL
that I had versus the TVL
that they were displaying on their site.
We saw that it did not match up.
We asked them why and they said at the time
that they were depositing into HyperLiquid
some sort of carry trade strategy.
At that point, we would definitely not touch it.
It is a black box and we said to them,
this is super risky.
You can't just have people trusting
that there is backing to this
when you cannot prove it at all.
They ended up copying and pasting those private messages
and posting them in their Discord
and dunking on me over and over back in May.
I did not appreciate that.
But you're not better.
Let the record show that you're not better about it.
I kind of forgot about it until a few months ago
when they started to get even more deposits.
I realized that they had tapped into the yields
and more Discord, which is like a farming group.
It's been around for a number of years.
After all of those liquidations happened on 1010,
Schlage and the rest of the yarn security team
found on-chain that a lot of these projects
and funds had some losses.
To us, there was no way that everyone from Stream Finance
got out of those strategies without taking losses.
We knew that there was a hole there.
There just had to be.
Schlage started digging more into the on-chain data,
found all of this daisy chain of looping,
recursive lending, and curators offering up liquidity
from user deposits in order to fuel all of this.
We found that even though they had grown
from $160 million of deposits into $500 million,
there were really no net new deposits coming in.
This was just a scheme going on on the backend.
And when we asked them about it,
there was no proof of anything.
Nothing that they were doing was verifiable,
and it's just a huge red flag.
Truth be told, if this all did not happen on 1010,
if this ball didn't get started rolling,
they would still be looping more.
Right now, they would still be accepting user deposits
right now, knowing that they had a hole
they had to have known on the backend.
And it would have just kept on getting bigger
and bigger and bigger.
I'm glad that things shook out the way they did.
It was not an easy few weeks to deal with all of this stuff,
but here we are.
And what ends up happening is that you have
this tokenized strategy, XUSD,
that gets involved in other vaults.
XUSD itself is sort of a tokenized vault, so to speak,
that's investing in DeFi protocols to get the yield.
But then that representation of DeFi yield
gets placed into another vault, a sort of vault of vaults.
So those vaults then lose value
because they have invested in XUSD,
which has de-pegged and lost its value.
And so we've talked about curators a little bit here.
Maybe if you could unpack that term,
what's the role of a risk curator in DeFi?
You have the people depositing on one side,
you have the DeFi protocols on the other side,
where the actual lending and borrowing happens.
And then in the middle, there's these actors
that are putting together these vaults.
They also live directly on some of these protocols
like Euler and Morpho and set the parameters
of you want to borrow against this asset,
we deem this asset to be risk averse enough
that you can borrow at a 95% LTV instead of an 85% LTV.
And so what's the role and maybe the faults
of the risk curators in some of these scenarios?
There are a lot of curators these days,
and there are a lot of vault projects these days.
I don't really know why
because none of us are making any money.
I just want that to be clear.
This is not a great business.
You have to have billions of dollars in deposits
to generate the amount of revenue Aave is making
or any of these other really big projects right now.
So being a curator is not a terribly good business.
And right now, for a lot of stuff that we do,
we even have fees turned off because it just doesn't matter.
We want to have competitive rates
and the profits that we bring in the door
are just really small.
It's our job as a curator to make sure
that we're using sound collateral that matches the risk
that people assume is going on in that vault.
We also need to make sure that we have good automation,
that things are being replenished when they need to.
If there's borrowers who have a big appetite,
we need to make sure that there's liquidity
in that vault for them to borrow.
We need to understand the interest rate curves.
We need to make sure that we're being reactive
to everything in the market.
So there is a lot of work that has to be done.
We also have to meet the needs of demand
for people offering up new collaterals
or wanting to borrow in the first place.
We need to make sure that there's enough deposits.
What urine is doing right now
is we have this parent level vault
and this goes into deposits
into all of these different lending markets.
So even as a curator,
we can pull money from like YVUSDC
and throw it into something that we're curating on Morpho
if it needs liquidity.
We have like a multi-tiered business
where not every curator has that open to them right now.
We wanna discourage degenerate recursive looping.
We wanna make sure that everything that we're doing
is really safe.
To us, reputation is everything
and we're completely blind
to accepting short-term incentives.
We don't do any side deals or anything like that.
Whenever people ask us to like build products
that just farm points, we usually say no
because we know that the amount of work
that goes into building and supporting strategies
is probably not going to be worth the effort
in fees or deposits.
So there's a lot of stuff that we say no to
and I think it just makes our ability
to like make it through tough economic conditions
that much more strong.
Survival is everything.
It's pretty clear to us now
that some curators are gonna take big risks
and they're gonna damage their reputation
and we'll be here to survive and to be strong and safe
and get those deposits when people eventually
come back into DeFi because they will.
In the long run, usually good risk management pays off.
It's not just in DeFi where people blow themselves
chasing higher returns everywhere in finance.
Switching gears a little bit,
curious as someone who's building in DeFi,
from your perspective, what's sort of the state
of on-chain cybersecurity right now?
Recently Balancer, which is sort of a
decentralized swapping exchange similar to Uniswap
was just hacked for over a hundred million dollars.
GMX earlier this year,
Decentralized Perpetualist Protocol similar to Hyperliquid,
both have been around since 2020 probably before I think
was also hacked for a significant amount.
I think those two especially caught people off guard
of no one's safe.
There's this idea in cryptoness of lindiness where,
okay, something's been around for four or five, six years,
I feel safe putting my money in this protocol
and Balancer and GMX broke that model a little bit.
A lot of these protocols,
they tout their audits that they've done.
They tout the security partners that they're working with.
Our code is safe, but are those tools enough?
What else needs to exist to stop
another Balancer from happening?
I don't want to spook people,
but the reality is low risk DeFi is not here yet.
Low risk DeFi and Vitalik's vision of that is great.
I have no doubt that time in the market will get us there.
Is the five years of DeFi's whole lifetime
enough for that to happen so far?
Apparently it's not.
The best that we can do today is verifiable DeFi,
being able to see everything that's going on on chain
and verify it to know that it's real.
So one of the things I did with YarnAlso
is I started an audit company.
It's called Electosec right now,
formerly Y Audit and Y Academy.
We're actually changing the name back to Y Audit pretty soon.
But from this experience,
I can say that code quality has definitely gone up.
No question.
The amount of safety that teams are taking
into account right now is not slowing down.
I think we've done 17 engagements with Euler.
They're not taking their foot off the gas for security.
They're always going to be auditing their code bases.
This is a time in the market thing.
For code that is immutable,
where you don't really know where the dangers could be,
people need to just build their code as simply as possible,
leave out tons of complexity where they can.
And that's going to help reduce
the amount of vulnerabilities,
but also security is a journey.
Just because you launch your code base
does not mean that there are no vulnerabilities in it.
Just because you've been in the market for a year
doesn't mean that there's anything wrong with it.
Do contests have big, meaningful bug bounties?
Yearn has paid out bug bounties before
for stuff that people have caught.
It's worked out well.
Participating in bug bounties works, so do it.
I think the combination of all these things
and a layered security approach,
along with time in the market,
will get us the safety that we need for low risk DeFi.
It's going to take constant improvement for a long time.
So a sort of Swiss cheese approach, I guess,
multiple layers that cover up the holes.
What are the implications of all of this
on not only the traditional finance world's appetite
for investing in exploring DeFi,
but just kind of a everyday non-cryptonative person
that says, well, I could get 3.5%, 4% right now
for my savings account,
or I could get maybe 7%, 8%, 10% of safe,
quote unquote, crypto native DeFi yield.
But given this risk of unregulated black box hedge funds
out there acting as tokens,
given this risk of a hack to the protocol,
is that increase from the risk-free government treasury rate
enough to make DeFi interesting to people outside of crypto?
I was in New York City last week
to meet with a bunch of traditional finance companies.
And to be very honest, they're spooked about it.
The difference between 3.5% and 5%
is not enough for them to come into DeFi.
It's going to take some time to build back the reputation
and make sure that things are safe again.
I was very surprised that some of the people
who I met with are new to crypto.
They're representing their company's push for DeFi products.
They don't understand the difference
between multi-SIGFI and programmatic vaults.
It's something that I've had to explain to them.
I'm totally happy to do it.
I wanna do it more,
but I need to convince them that there is a big difference.
And just because you can manipulate your vault share price,
that is not a good thing in many cases.
Having full control over that
also brings in additional risk into the equation.
It's really good that talent and attention
is coming into crypto from that side of the fence.
I don't think that's going to stop,
but they're very hesitant to use true verifiable DeFi for sure.
Do you think there's any inverse correlation
of demand for DeFi products
as the government treasury rate comes down?
Rates are starting to come down.
You mentioned that Terra, Luna Collapse
happened to line up with rates rocketing up to 5%.
Is that bullish for DeFi,
or will yields come down in DeFi
the same way that they're gonna come down outside of crypto?
If the risk-free rate comes down,
it is unquestionably bullish for DeFi.
Deposits will come back in the door.
If the risk-free rate is one or 2%,
and we're doing six, seven, or 8%,
they will come into DeFi.
I have no doubt in my mind about that.
Shout out Jerome Powell, if you're listening.
How do you think all this impacts a crypto investor,
a retail investor's willingness to invest
in the native tokens of these DeFi protocols?
You mentioned Uran has a token,
all of these newer multi-SIGFY protocols
even have tokens too.
How should people think about valuing those,
especially once they're in their post-incentive phase
of their life cycle?
And how do you guys think about driving value
to people that wanna hold the Yearn token?
There are two ways of building value
into governance tokens these days,
aside from just having it to vote in your favor
for things that you want to see happen,
buy and burn or distributing profits through your token.
Those are the two paths that people can take.
Yearn does not see the value
in just buying and burning tokens.
What we're choosing to do is rebuild Wi-Fi
still locking it to get a distribution of profits,
but doing like a more short-term lock.
So that's what we're going to be doing right now.
I think it's like a one month lock period,
and then you get a share of all the profits
that we are going to be distributing.
This is the time that Yearn has to go
and turn the fee switch on too.
So we're more focused on generating profits
than we once were.
That's good to hear.
I mean, generating profits for a long time
didn't seem to be the focus for many people in crypto.
In the last year,
there's definitely been in this newer SEC environment,
while not everything is clear,
we're still kind of in a pre-clarity era, so to speak,
for which of these things are securities
and which of them aren't,
but you still have to give people reasons
to hold these tokens for the long-term,
rather not to just think of them as points or air miles
that you can receive and spend right away.
The meta recently has been for vault projects
to be pre-deposit vaults
for like new L2s and stuff they're launching.
And that is a really short-term thing.
You get the money in the door,
but then within a few months, might not be there.
Profits that are generated from those events
are not going to be as significant as getting user adoption
for people who want to use your strategies
long-term as like a high quality source of yield.
We worked for a long time on the Katana L2.
Polygon was not the only group who was evaluating
using yarn vaults as pre-deposit vaults.
They were the only group to pick yarn
as their pre-deposit vault though.
And the reason why is because David Silverman
and Mark Boiren over at Polygon
fully understood the risk of using a multi-sig
where price per share could be manipulated.
And they wanted to do stuff that was fully on chain.
And I love them for that.
And we ended up doubling our TVL this year because of that.
Yarn vaults are deeply embedded into Katana chain.
And it's just been a real pleasure to work with people
like you and DeFi who really align with our own values
of safety and being verifiable.
A lot of this is going to come down to education
to a certain extent, especially kind of going back
to your conversation with those finance folks in New York
of like, hey, here's why this matters.
Here's why you want these assets to be verifiably on chain,
not just in some black box,
even if you might get 100, 200 bips lower yield,
you're paying for that on a risk reward spectrum.
You're right, people don't understand that.
Here's a good example.
If you're in just a staked ETH position or like an LRT
and you're earning yield that slightly outperforms
our own WEF1 vault, first of all,
as the price of ETH goes up,
the withdraw queue is not gonna go down.
It's only gonna get longer.
If you're also faced to exit your position at a time
when those pools are unbalanced,
you could wipe out six months
or a year of your yield instantly.
And if you're using a urine vault,
it's always liquid all the time
and it's a cash equivalent product.
So even though your yield will be slightly less,
you will get to keep it.
People don't seem to really understand that yet,
but part of my discovery in New York last week,
talking to some of these traditional finance firms
and hedge funds is that there is an audience
for a cash equivalent yield bearing product.
It is the director of a treasury.
They could be the director of treasury of like a hospital
or a university, a pension,
but they need to earn yield on their deposits
but also have them be liquid all the time.
They might have their CFO ask them,
you need to liquidate this
because we need to go and make a payment for something
or buy a building.
If they can exit that position
that they were earning yield on without losing that yield
or without taking on additional risk
and being able to do it whenever they want.
If your time in the vault is unpredictable,
you're involved to the product that you should be using.
You should be using something that is cash equivalent.
I got my hands on this huge database
of all these treasury managers
and I'm gonna give it a shot of going down
and seeing who has an appetite to at least learn
about what verifiable DeFi is
and what we're bringing to the table.
I'm not expecting to get a huge amount of yeses,
but even getting a few and making those connections
is where we need to start.
Knocking on doors, spreading the good word,
someone's got to do it.
Exactly, it's not gonna be easy.
Another kind of thing underlying a lot of this conversation
is everything sort of exists in crypto
on a spectrum of centralized to decentralized
and DeFi decentralized finance, even within DeFi.
Certainly, I wouldn't call them to be decentralized.
It's kind of decentralized in name only,
especially when we talk about these multi-SIG 5 products,
these on-chain, off-chain hedge funds
where it's just a couple of guys
yoloing your positions into high-risk yield.
Where do you think we are today
on this spectrum of centralization to decentralization
within DeFi and crypto
and are we headed in the right direction,
especially as more TradFi people come on chains,
more payments move to stablecoins?
A lot of people, DeFi purists,
even will stick their noses up at stablecoins sometimes
as USDC may be on Ethereum, on a decentralized blockchain,
but you're still trusting, circle the company
to mint you the USDC and buy and custody
the treasury asset that's underlying it
and redeem it when you ask for it.
There's still a level of trust involved there.
So where are we on that spectrum?
Are we headed in the right direction in your opinion?
There's a good mix of signals in there, to be honest,
but if you zoom out,
I think we are trending in the right direction.
The reason why I say that is just because
I've seen TBL start to leave some of these projects
that are in DeFi,
but are reliant on these centralized exchanges
or parties or whatever,
reducing counterparty risk
and relying on maybe something
that is just a smart contract,
getting the human element out of decision-making
will become more popular over time in certain circles.
There's always going to be people who will prefer USDC
because it is backed by the government of somewhere
or the bank is backed by the government.
I think that that product will always be out there
for a good reason too,
at least for Ethereum's vision,
low risk DeFi is a great north star
and that does not involve these centralized entities
in that equation at all.
It just establishes a base rate of yield.
Even these centralized parties
will sometimes fall back on that.
For instance, I think at the peak TBL of Athena,
only 30% of their funds were in the carry trade strategy
going on between all these centralized exchanges.
The rest of it went into Aave to get the Aave yield,
which is exactly what we do.
You need a base rate of yield
and if it's there and it's robust,
can take giant deposits
and people are definitely gonna use it.
That's good.
We're moving in the right direction.
People are learning.
We're educating people.
Maybe that's a good place to leave it.
Corin, thanks so much for coming on.
Appreciate the time.
We should do it again soon.
Yeah, we should.
Thank you for having me.
Let me know if you ever have any questions,
anybody listening.
I'm always around.
Thanks for listening to another episode
of On the Brink with Castle Island.
To learn more about Castle Island,
visit castleisland.vc
and to listen to all of our podcast episodes,
please visit castleisland.vc slash podcast
or just click on the tab on our website.
Thanks for listening.
