TITLE: Robinhood Crypto's Roadmap: Johann Kerbrat on Expansion, Staking, and Blockchain Integration
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pk73P3Fme6g
VIDEO_ID: pk73P3Fme6g

TRANSCRIPT:
All right, here we are with Johan Kerbratt, Vice President General Manager of Robinhood
 Crypto.
 Johan, it's so great to have you on the Defiant podcast.
 Welcome.
 Thank you.
 Thanks for having me.
 I'm excited to chat to you.
 Yeah, same.
 So Robinhood is obviously one of the biggest FinTech companies and investment applications
 for just like the mainstream market in the US and Europe.
 And it's really kind of led the way with incorporating crypto and allowing access to crypto to the
 masses.
 So yeah, very excited to dig into Robinhood's long-term vision and different products you're
 working on.
 So just to start, I'd love to get like a general idea of what Robinhood Crypto's history has
 been.
 So if you can walk me through when Robinhood first started adding crypto to its investment
 products, what different products it offers.
 Maybe if you have like the backstory on how the early conversations were like when it
 was like first considering adding crypto like why you decided to add crypto, all that kind
 of background.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 I can try to do my best to explain a bit with the spirit of the company.
 So we started to add crypto in the beginning of 2018.
 At the time we only launched with a very few assets and at the time there was a strong belief
 that crypto was going to be here to stay and it was something that our customer wanted.
 And so even then it was supposed to kind of the summer of 2017 and we were back in the
 winter where there was not a ton of traction of crypto, the leadership at the time and still
 decided that it was very important to offer crypto in the product.
 So it launched in February of 2018 and then at the time it was only buy and sell of crypto
 currencies and slowly we started to add more and more features and in 2021, for example,
 we started to launch crypto transfer.
 So eligible customers could deposit and transfer out crypto from the platform and then we also
 started to add more assets and build a lot more features after that.
 Can you give me an idea of what Robinhood's general take on crypto is?
 Yeah, I think for us the way we think about crypto is that it's going to be the financial
 framework of tomorrow, not just like as an asset class or as instruments, but also in
 a way where companies will actually operate.
 We think that blockchain can bring a lot of efficiencies, reduce cost of operation and
 also improve the experience for the end customer.
 And so we really think that it can become this operating system for financial companies.
 And if you look in the past, we've seen a lot of these efficiencies in different ways.
 If you think about tokenized reward assets, for example, with a stable point, with cash
 to allow that is tokenized and put on the blockchain, you can see how much more efficiently
 it is compared to traditional wire, like you don't need to wait, you can send 24/7.
 It's instant, almost instant, it's not reversible so that you have no risk of fraud or anything
 like this.
 So, you know, this is a type of thing that we start to see a lot more customers excited
 about it.
 We start to see companies using it a lot more because it's more efficient.
 And we think that more and more instruments and systems are going to move to blockchain.
 Right now, how much a Robinhood volume does crypto account for?
 So, you know, crypto volume kind of changed based on the market and a lot of things.
 But what has been exciting is like, our volume has been going up recently.
 In November alone, for example, we've seen more than 30 billion in volume and that was
 up 400% compared to October, which was already a good month.
 So, you know, I think this is a really good proof that crypto is here to stay and it's
 something very important for Robinhood as well.
 So 70 billion in crypto volume in November?
 Sorry, sorry, sorry, the accident.
 Okay, 30 billion of crypto volume in November.
 And how much was Robinhood's total volume?
 That I wouldn't tell you, you know, I'm on the crypto site, so I know the crypto volume.
 Okay.
 Do you have an idea of like roughly what share crypto is of Robinhood's total volume doesn't
 have to be specifically in November, maybe an average of like past quarter or just an
 idea of how like how important crypto is for Robinhood?
 You know, I think that's also something we, I could get back to you.
 I think it's hard to compare, address the volume, there are different also, decorate
 the different ways of monetizing.
 And so, and we have multiple business line now, it's not just stock and crypto.
 So we have the crypto revenue, we have the crypto volume, but there's also many business
 line at Robinhood now.
 That's interesting.
 And right, maybe we can, we can get into the different crypto like business lines because
 you have the trading side, but you also have the staking side.
 Is there anything, anything else to consider?
 Maybe we have different products, so we have the Robin US crypto that is kind of focusing
 on trading and transferring of assets.
 We also launched in December of last year in the EU.
 And so we also offering transfers, trading of spot and like mentioned staking as well.
 And then we have a product called Robin Connect, which is all on ramp or framp.
 You know, that any developer or any wallet developer can implement into their system.
 And Robinhood customers or new customers can easily found their wallet using that system.
 And then the final line that we have is, or Robin wallet, it's a self custody wallet.
 And it supports already like a lot of chains and, you know, there is also like a lot of
 activities there.
 But it's interesting, so for the different business lines, how does Robinhood monetize
 crypto?
 So anything around the spot trading, we receive a rebate from the market maker.
 We send the all deals to.
 So in the US, this has been like since the beginning from 2018, in the EU, it's a bit
 more different because we have different ways of monetizing.
 And so we still receive a rebate from market maker, but there are some chains, for example,
 where we do not make any revenue and we just offer it at the price that the customer is
 seeing.
 So for example, you can trade Bitcoin with no fee, no, and we don't make any revenue
 on it as well.
 And then on the Robinhood Connect side, we do travel fee, and it's clearly displayed
 during the transaction for the customer.
 And on staking, we take a portion of the reward that the customer are getting.
 The Robinhood Connect decides the ability to transfer to withdraw.
 Robinhood Connect is an on-ramp, a frame, kind of similar to how can I like something
 like Moonpay, for example, and so, you know, Dabs and wallets can implement it on their
 platform and customer can load the wallet using this platform, but also customer can
 just transfer from their account and we do not charge any fee there, except the blockchain
 fee that is just a buy-through to the network.
 Can you explain a little bit about how the rebate works from market makers?
 Yeah, so basically, we send the transaction to market maker and all of them, like the
 market maker that is actually receiving the order from the customers is going to give
 us a rebate and it's the same rebate across all the market makers.
 And the idea is to really put in competition all the market maker and make sure that we
 can offer the tightest spread to the customer and, you know, if you look about it, we actually
 did a lot of research on it and analysis and, in average, Robinhood Crypto offers the lowest
 cost in the U.S. and in the U. And that's something that, you know, is very important
 for us.
 I was interested to learn more about your self-costity wallet. When was that launched
 and how many users do you have on it now?
 Yeah, it's been launched for a few years and we also recently launched the Android version
 this year, actually. I think it was in Q1 or Q2 of this year. And so the wallet has been
 downloaded 100,000 times and we are available in 100 plus countries. I couldn't tell you
 the exact number of users because, you know, as a wallet, it's a bit difficult. You can
 create multiple wallets, like these kind of things. So we are mostly focusing on the
 dollar number and the origin of location for that.
 Great. Okay, so I just looked up the monthly trading volume for equities on Robinhood and
 latest was the September number. And so that was $126 billion. So compared to, I know it's
 not apples to apples because you gave me November crypto numbers and compared with November,
 that was like, it's like 20, like around 20% of Robinhood trading. Do you have a, do you
 have an estimate of where you would want or expect that share to be next year?
 I'm not really like in the sense of, you know, trading volume compared to equities. Like it's
 a bit of a funky comparison. Like, I think the main focus that we have at Robinhood is
 we want to give access to any type of financial instrument that our customers are looking for.
 So, you know, if one day they want to buy a specific stock of a company, we should give
 them the access and we should give them the best way to access it. And same thing for crypto.
 And so I think my mental model is a bit more around market share compared to our competitors
 versus compared to different financial instrument that, you know, a very little to do between
 each other, like, you know, someone buying Microsoft or Tesla is not necessarily looking
 for the same thing when they're buying Ethereum. And so I think, you know, for us, like the
 main focus is what is our market share position compared to the other major US retail platform
 and how do we compare to them? And how do we grab market share compared to someone using,
 you know, one of our competitors is ours.
 Right. So in crypto, your main competitors would be crypto exchanges, which is, you know,
 where a lot of people obviously will go to buy crypto first. So how, yeah, how do you
 compete with that? Like, how can you, what can you offer that's differentiated from a
 crypto exchange for buying crypto?
 Yeah, I think, you know, what I mentioned before, like, we have too many advantages.
 I think I very hard to match for some of these competitors. Like, one is we're a multi asset
 class product. So instead of having one app for your broker edge account and one app for
 your crypto, you can have everything in one app within Robbie note. And, you know, if
 you add on top of that, that we, we also offer a credit card. We also offer, you know, a
 lot of other products that are not just equities and crypto. You really get to a point where
 you can think that Robbie note can be the one app for all your financial needs, basically.
 And the second thing is around cost, right? Like, like I mentioned, offering the lowest
 cost to trade crypto in average is something that is very important. Like we want to make
 sure that just American access, this financial instrument. And so this is also something that
 is difficult to to to match. And, you know, if you trade on Robbie note, for example,
 you can get up to 10% more crypto for specific asset than on a competing platform. So, you
 know, I think that brings a lot of value to the end customers and that's something that
 is pretty important and balance the fact that we we may not have all the features that some
 crypto exchange do offer. Definitely very important benefits. But I think, you know, one thing
 that people buying crypto will look at is just the amount or the number of tokens offered.
 So right now in the US, I understand you have around 20 tokens in offered in the app. You
 have 40 in Europe. And what do you take into account when deciding which tokens to make
 available on the platform? And yeah, are there other plans to accelerate the number of crypto
 currencies you add or how do you think about that roadmap?
 Yeah, you know, I think for us, it's something that is always important. It's one of the
 most requested feature from from our customers. And we always listen to what our customers
 are asking for. So more assets is something that they are looking for. And so we are really
 excited to to start adding assets. We added five in in November. And I think, you know,
 we saw that there was like strong demand and strong reaction from from our customers.
 So we are we're excited to keep doing this in terms of like, how do we decide to list
 a specific asset? It's a combination of multiple things. So one is customer demand. Like, you
 know, want to make sure that we offer what our customers are excited about. And two, we
 go through listing committees that review new assets and existing assets on the platform.
 And we look at multiple facets of it from a legal aspect to operation aspects, security
 aspect, technology, you know, want to make sure that, for example, there is enough liquidity
 in the market. We want to make sure that the offering was fair, you know, we want to try
 to reduce as much as possible the risk for the customer. And, you know, in terms of like
 number of assets, we also think it's important to offer like the right feature link to the
 asset. So, you know, a lot of customers are excited about the fact that they can, they
 can trade at a lower cost in every age or they can use some of our advanced tools to
 use the assets versus having like, you know, Harlands of assets. So it's always a question
 of prioritization. And, you know, we're looking at making sure that we prioritize what our
 customers are asking for. Right now, do you think it's more important to add more assets
 or work on more advanced trading features? I think it's a combination of the two, you
 know, if you look at what we've done in the past few months, we had a new, new advanced
 feature where the new auto types, we improve our charts, we added like, you know, advanced
 and things like this that customers have been asking for for a long time. Like, it's pretty
 important for them to be able to do like the right technical analysis and build kind of
 the portfolios that they are looking for. And then, you know, at the same time, we also
 added new assets. So it's a combination of the two and again, kind of trying to match
 what our customers are asking for at all time. The other feature or functionality that you
 have that we briefly mentioned already is staking in the EU for Seoul and ETH. And I
 know that this has been a difficult kind of feature to add because of regulatory concerns
 in the US. But with the new Trump administration's supposedly being more crypto friendly, are
 you, do you think that you'll be able to add staking in the US? Are you evaluating whether
 it will be a good time to add it? Or like, what what needs to happen for US customers
 to be able to to stake? Yeah, so, you know, I think there is definitely a question around
 regulatory clarity for for staking. The at the same time, like, if you if you think about
 the new administration, you know, there is a lot of hope and belief that they are going
 to be a lot more crypto friendly. But at the same time, like, nothing has really changed,
 right? Like, there is no clear rule or clear legal legal framework that is available for
 companies to use. So, you know, I think we do need to work with a regulator and we do
 need to work to understand, like, what is really going to be possible. But it's definitely
 one of the requested feature from from our customers. So we are always kind of looking
 at it. And, you know, what we've seen in the the EU is actually very interesting. Like,
 we have seen that, you know, our customer, we're actually extremely excited by staking,
 not just because of the fact that they're getting rewards, but also because they're
 able to contribute to network that they peaked. And, and I think that was, you know, maybe
 something that there wasn't as cautious about initially, like, the fact that customer were
 actually really interested to help protect the network, help being part of it. But at
 the same time, like, sticking, being complicated, they didn't really want to do it themselves.
 And so using a platform like Robin, it was something that got them really excited about.
 And so we've seen a lot of adoption in the in the EU. And so it's definitely something
 that is encouraging for us as a as a business.
 Right now, how have you seen that growth relative to just regular, you know, trading or buying
 and selling crypto, do you think staking is kind of a and a more niche interest or something
 that just like the general public wants to do?
 I think it's a combination of the two. I think, you know, on paper, staking is great in multiple
 ways, right? It's one you help the network to you also get reward. So customers are overall
 pretty excited about it. But I also think there's a bit of an education that we need to do to
 really get the general public ready to start staking and ready to start using it. You know,
 at the end of the day, it's it's a term that is being thrown around in many ways. You have
 different ways to to to well, you don't really have different ways to stake, but you see other
 blockchain or other like completing platform that are using staking, but actually they
 are meaning landing behind it, or they are meaning something else. And so I think there
 is still a lot of education that is required for like the general public to really understand
 what it means, what does it do, what are the risks associated with it, and what can you
 get from from this. And then there's also a bit of friction around it, like, you know,
 between the time it takes for the assets to be stakes, the time that you will need to
 unstick it. And so some people prefer to have access right away to the assets versus like
 waiting the burning on burning period. But I do see, you know, the excitement and I do
 see people wanting to contribute to the network. So so it's something that, you know, we we're
 pretty happy to start offering and embarking into this journey.
 Um, would you, since people, you know, have been excited to take on this, this new like
 DeFi functionality. Do you see Robinhood adding more DeFi functionalities? Like, like you
 mentioned, lending, maybe you could enable users to lend stable coins through and use
 Ave or like another lending protocol in the back end to earn yield in their stable coins
 or, or maybe take out collateralized loans and yeah, take out stable coin loans against
 their, their ETH or their Bitcoin. Um, yeah, it's, it's that in your pipeline or roadmap
 or something that you're considering. Um, you know, it's always hard for me to say
 like, are we considering it? Because in general, like we have people looking at everything happening
 in crypto and, and, you know, we want to make sure that we consider every, every possibility
 and when customers are asking for things, we look into it. But at the same time, also,
 I think crypto is moving so fast. It's such a wide, um, you know, space that if we were
 to offer every single feature, like it, it will take an army of, of engineer and, and
 we, and even still, like I don't think we'll be able to match everything. So I think the,
 the poster that we took is that on our centralized, um, marketplace, you know, Robin crypto in
 the US or in the U, we have very select, uh, feature set, but we really try to make sure
 that we have all the, the polish that we like to build the, the UX, the UIs that, you know,
 Robin is famous for that is making it easy to use and, um, and, and also like, uh, giving
 like the most, uh, uh, rewards or, or return to, to the customer. But at the same time on
 the, we, we know that customer want more, right? So that's, that was kind of the theory behind
 the Robin wallet where we felt like this was the best getaway to access everything that
 is available on, on web three. Um, and at the time when we were starting to think about
 building the wallet, um, customer where often telling us like, Hey, Robin crypto is great,
 but as soon as I, as I transfer to, to a self custody wallet, I'm, I'm getting kind of,
 uh, lost in a, you know, in a worst like situation, like the UX UI is difficult. There is like
 all this, uh, question around how to set up the wallet. I don't know what to do. And so
 we, we do that upon ourselves to make sure that we will build like the easiest to use
 what, um, if you look at it, the UX and UI is very similar to Robin. And so people don't
 have to learn anything new. Um, we added a lot of education content to explain to people
 how to transfer to the world. What does it mean to, uh, to own your own key, like this
 kind of things we launch transaction, uh, gasless transactions. So people didn't need to acquire
 the gas token to proceed to a transaction. Like, you know, really removing all the barriers
 to entry to a otherwise complicated product. And from there, they can really access any
 protocol or any depth that is available. And so, you know, if someone wants to, uh, to
 use something that we don't offer on our centralized platform, they can use a wallet for it.
 I see. How many chains are available? Uh, we, we have a lot of chains now, um, you know,
 from all the assets that we, we support on the platform for self custody, like Dogecoin
 Bitcoin to, um, E3M obviously. And then we have, uh, recently added like, uh, Solana and
 base support. We also have a partnership with Arbitrum where not only is there a one chain
 that, uh, we, we have on the wide, but also we support like special features like cross
 chain swap and, and thing like this. So, um, there's a lot to do on the world if you want
 to. Definitely. Do you have native, um, swaps? Yeah, we, we do also. Nice. Okay. Um, and
 you said that Arbitrum is the one Ethereum layer too. You support or do you also have
 others? We, we have more than just, uh, arbitrum, we have base. We have, uh, uh, polygon, uh,
 and we are keeping on adding more and more, uh, with, uh, with the time. Great. Okay.
 And then you said before that you, you, you don't have the, like the monthly, um, active
 users. Uh, but do you have a, uh, a way to give us sense of the, um, like the traction
 that the wallet has? I didn't like, um, amount cost, like self custody in, through Robinhood
 or I don't know what metric you would look at. Um, the, the amount of self custody would
 be difficult as well because you can, you can always, you know, use the same sit phrase
 between our wallet and, and another wallet. So, um, that, that would be, uh, difficult,
 but yeah, look, the, the download number is, is something that we track a lot. So it's
 been downloaded a hundred thousand of times and the amount of country, I think I mentioned
 like how in countries as well. Great. Um, so, okay. So hunt, hunt hundreds of thousands
 of times of, of, uh, of total downloads. Okay. Um, so, um, I wanted to also ask you about,
 uh, this, this, this narrative that emerged back in the like meme stock frenzy days, uh,
 when, you know, like a game stop and AMC and all those like meme stocks became really
 popular and, um, it, it, it, there was like this like overlap between equity trading culture
 and crypto trading like in, in kind of the volatile nature and like the online nature
 of it with Wall Street bets, wanting to short squeeze hedge funds and like, um, that whole
 story and it became very like very popular in crypto circles to point out how Robinhood
 halted trading. And so, you know, people who advocate for just on chain trading would say,
 you know, in a, in a decentralized exchange, nobody can stop you from trading. So I wanted
 to ask your take there. Um, I mean, first, like what, what's, what's your response to
 that, uh, that argument until whether Robinhood would ever add, um, you know, just like blockchain
 and as like a backend, just like a trading infrastructure where you would maybe like
 tokenize equities and use blockchains as a way of making settlement, um, more efficient.
 So like two parts of that question. Yeah, um, you know, I think on the, on the first
 point, I think it's, it's definitely something that, you know, if, if you're in crypto, if
 you believe in decentralized, uh, finance, you, you definitely think about the type of
 solution that it brings on the table for, for problems. Um, not just for like trading
 specifically, but also like, you know, uh, ownership of the assets, uh, you know, we've
 seen the best banks freezing accounts, like this kind of things. And, and that's something
 that could not necessarily happen on the, on the self custody wallet. At the same time
 as, as, you know, an engineer by trade, um, I, I do want to call out that blockchain is
 not necessarily like the solution to everything. It's a, it's a good, uh, building blog, but
 for trading and, and especially like high volume trading, like you mentioned, uh, you,
 you need like multiple building blogs that actually all work together. And if you look
 at, at blockchain, like we have seen outages, we have seen ad acts, we have seen blockchain
 company freezing because, um, there was a problem or bug and we needed all the value
 that talk to restart or like this kind of things. Uh, we have seen also hard forks, you
 know, even on chain, like Instagram, like if you're, if you remember back in the days,
 uh, that's, that's, that happened. And so, you know, blockchain is not going to be the
 solution of everything. You will need degree provider, you will need decks, you will need,
 uh, customers will need the chain and everything to, to work in unison before, uh, you can
 support like, uh, something, something like this and, and really reduce the risk to zero.
 Um, it's, it's going to take time and, and, and work. But at the same time, it is something
 that we're extremely excited about. We, we think that blockchain is not just a better
 technology. It's also more efficient. It's also bringing like, uh, new features for,
 for free. Uh, you know, for example, like offering 24/7, um, is not necessarily possible
 like in, um, in the equities world, um, without, you know, a lot of work and, uh, it's not
 going to be available by default. Same thing with fractionalization of share. It's not
 something that is offered by default, like Robin does offer it for, for equities, but
 it takes a lot of work. And, uh, blockchain actually solve a lot of this and, and tokenization
 could solve a lot of these issues. Um, and I think, you know, that's something that we
 want to invest in. And to your point around settlement, like it is something that we
 already, we already do. So for example, when we sell with, uh, some of our counter, uh,
 parties or market makers, um, we do use stable coins and we do sell with them using stable
 coins, um, uh, partly or totally. And that's something that we've seen a lot of value.
 For example, like during weekends when we need to sell with them, we can send a stable coin
 versus waiting for the banks to open. Do you do that with, with crypto trading or also with
 equities? Um, I think right now it's only on the, on the crypto side, but it's, it's definitely
 something that, you know, doesn't necessarily have boundaries on how we use it internally.
 It's, it's part of our, our fall back end basically. Oh, that's really interesting. So you could see
 expanding, um, blockchain settlement with stable coins for equities as well. Yeah. And, and, you know,
 we, we see a lot of value from blockchain technologies that doesn't even have to be necessarily like
 on a public blockchain. Like you, you also see like a lot more companies starting to have their own,
 uh, private blockchain, but using a blockchain versus using like a normal database that can be
 like modified or anything like this. That's, that was actually my next question, uh, with, you know,
 yeah, we talk, talk about using blockchain for trading infrastructure, but yeah, there are,
 there are so many companies who are launching their own layer tools or their own chains. Uh,
 but, uh, when you're going through the down the Ethereum layer to pass, um, with like these solutions
 pretty much coming kind of out of the box now for, for companies. So, uh, Coinbase obviously has
 a base layer too, very popular, but Sony is launching its own layer to, um, and there's many
 companies that are considering this in the pipeline as well. Um, is that something kind of, what,
 what you were talking about, how like you, you could have, uh, like your own Robinhood chain to
 perform some of these operations. That wasn't necessarily like, I was more making a general
 statement and we've seen more company, even like big banks, like for example, uh, JP Morgan is using
 the JPM coin, which is blockchain powered, but it's a, it's a part of blockchain. It's not like on,
 on the Ethereum network or, or any public network. Um, I think for, for us, you know, it's always
 interesting when, when people ask me this question on like, are we going to launch another base?
 Uh, usually what we look at when, when we want to build feature is like, what can we differentiate,
 the, the feature with, what can we build that is very different from other partners or,
 or competitors? Um, and there are already a lot of chains available in, in the nature. So we want
 to make sure that if we were to build our own chain, that would be something that is very
 different. Um, and that, that being said, you know, it's, it's always something that we are,
 we are interested, but, um, at this point, like, you know, we don't have any specific plan to,
 to launch our own chain. And, and we think that, you know, there's a lot of, of, uh,
 product available out there that we can use. Great. Okay. And then in them, you know, like,
 how you're, you said you're, you've, um, seen how blockchains can make some of your processes
 more efficient. Uh, we'd love to learn more about that. Like so far, uh, in your,
 your use of blockchains, um, and how, you know, like the, the efficiencies you've seen them help
 with and what you've seen, they, they're, what their limitations are. Like what, what are some of
 your key takeaways on how, um, it may be other fintechs can, how, how they can use, uh, blockchains.
 Yeah. I mean, you know, there is a ton of, of ways to use it. At the end of the day, it's,
 it's like a big database. All right. And so if you think about any, any service doesn't have
 to be web three, you can think about any web two service. Um, the database is kind of at the core
 of, of any product that is built. And so you can think about, you know, replacing almost any service
 with a blockchain powered database instead of a normal database. And you will see a lot of people
 being able to, to use it on all side. I think where it's really exciting is around, um, you know,
 the fact that we can settle the blockchain at a, at a pace that is very different from
 traditional finance. Um, you know, if you think about last year, we, we celebrated, um,
 moving from T plus two sell now to T plus one, meaning like still a full day and, and you know,
 you compare that to, to blockchain and the, you know, Bitcoin being like probably one of the
 slower block time confirmation will be around 10 minutes. So it's a huge, uh, difference that will
 reduce cost of capital, cost of, um, and, and will increase efficiency in a lot of ways. Um,
 and so I think that's a part that we are really, really excited about. And then there is the
 aspect around building a platform that is based on, on blockchain, building a crypto exchange,
 for example, is a lot more efficient than, uh, and cost effective than using like a traditional
 finance, uh, brokerage. So we've been also focusing on, on that aspect, but for other
 companies to use it, I think it's, it's hard to say. I think it will depend on, on many ways on how
 they are, uh, structured and how they are using technology. Um, but I think, you know, one of,
 one of the obvious one is what I mentioned before, like, uh, stablecoin being, um, being kind of like
 the easier way to, to transfer money here and there, uh, compared to, to, to other, uh, medium.
 And then I think, you know, the, the fact that you've seen like some of the big acquisition
 this year being like, uh, breach, for example, like clearly shows that there is a lot of, uh,
 interest into improving like the payments rails. And, and, you know, I think we'll see a lot of
 innovation there. Very interested in what you said about, uh, exploring a crypto exchange. So
 right now for a revenue crypto, um, I, I, I assume like that work, that already worked kind of like
 an internal crypto exchange. Um, but maybe it, maybe it doesn't like, can you clarify what,
 what do you mean? Um, and what the difference would be? Yeah, absolutely. So, you know,
 an exchange would be meaning that we match customer order. So, you know, if you trade Bitcoin,
 you sell Bitcoin and I buy Bitcoin, if, if we had an exchange, we will potentially match all
 orders together. Um, Robin crypto is actually a marketplace. And so it means that we are sending
 orders to market maker, like I mentioned earlier, but, um, at the same time, we also announced the
 acquisition of bitstop. Um, and, you know, bitstop is an exchange. And so in the future, we are
 planning on building more advanced feature, uh, like, you know, trading from the audiobook and,
 and thing like this, uh, post the, the acquisition. Uh, okay. So would a revenue crypto then, um,
 transition into a, like a full long crypto exchange rather than a marketplace? I think it's,
 it's too early to say, you know, there's a lot of things that needs to happen before we,
 we will make any kind of Trump transition. But I think for us, like having the options to have
 an exchange and having the options to build like these more advanced, uh, features can give like,
 uh, better, you know, well, not necessarily better, but can, can bring like new features to
 the customers and, and something that they are asking for that we cannot necessarily build using
 market, uh, marketplace. Um, but I think it's going to be a bit more like targeting advanced
 customers that are like a bit more, um, uh, trading experts than, you know, the, the majority of
 the user on the platform. What kind of features would an exchange unlock for you? Um, so, so
 anything that, you know, for example, will be around the audiobook currently we, we don't necessarily
 offer like anything close to that. Um, where you will see exactly like, where is the liquidity, um,
 and how you can match it. Um, there are like more advanced features, more advanced audio types,
 for example, that are a bit more difficult to, to build for us, uh, as a marketplace and they
 will be with an exchange. And then, um, something that we are not offering yet at this point is really
 any, any institutional offering, uh, because we were really focused as a, as a company to, uh,
 sort of retail customers. And so, uh, bit stamp as an actual established business for institution.
 And, uh, we think that we will be able to use their already established relationship and, and
 build on top of that and combine the, um, the expertise of the, the companies to actually grow
 into this, uh, into this new business line. I mean, continuing along those lines, like, what are the,
 the big milestones that you're excited about for Robinhood crypto, uh, in, in the next few months
 or next year? You know, it's, it's, uh, it's a really exciting time. Uh, in crypto, I think,
 if you look at the past few weeks, um, since the election, we've seen like a renewed interest,
 we've seen, uh, all-time high for, uh, Bitcoin, we've seen, you know, a lot more customers engaging
 with it. So, um, I think if, if anything, it shows that 2025 is going to be even more interesting
 than 2024. Um, and so we, we want to make sure that we are there for, for customers. Um,
 there's a lot of new features that we're going to, to announce soon. Uh, one of them is around
 our new desktop web application, uh, called Robinhood Legend that we already, uh, showed for,
 for equities, uh, last months, but we're also going to add the, the support for crypto there. Um,
 and then, you know, this bit-stamped acquisition that I mentioned, I think it's a,
 a very exciting time for Robinhood. He will help on the institution front, but also on the
 expansion since they have licenses across the, the globe. And, um, yeah, I think we'll, we'll see
 from there, there is a lot coming up. Outside of Robinhood, what, uh, interesting, just general
 market trends are you seeing, uh, that are kind of the most exciting to you going into 2025?
 Um, most exciting to me is, is it's hard to say, I get excited by a lot of things, but I think, uh,
 the cross between crypto and AI is something that I've been looking at a lot. You know,
 I think, uh, a lot of the issues that we're discussing around AI or on, uh, the model,
 what data's are using to train the model, how do we verify, um, the, the information? I think a
 lot of these problems can be solved with crypto. And so that's something that I've been looking at
 quite a bit, uh, and I think, you know, blockchain and, and crypto in general can, can solve a lot of
 these issues and also offer like a more fair remuneration to, um, to people giving the data
 and, and all this kind of thing. So that's probably the most, uh, time I spent on, on that. And then,
 you know, I think, um, this week there was a lot of discussion around like, uh, the, the new chip
 coming from, from Google. And, and that's also something that we're spending, uh,
 sometime me and my friend to think about, you know, uh, algorithm that are, uh, resistant to,
 to, uh, quantum and, and how do we build from there and, and these kind of things.
 Nice. Okay. Um, and then to, to wrap up, I'd love to understand kind of the more long-term vision
 for Robinhood crypto. Like in 10 years, what role does Robinhood play in the blockchain industry?
 Yeah. You know, I, I think in the, in the short term, we're really focusing on offering the,
 the easiest to use and at the same time, lowest cost, uh, platform to, to trade crypto.
 And in the future, we really think that, um, like I mentioned before, like crypto can be
 the financial operating system of tomorrow. And, you know, I think Robinhood wants to be
 up here on the end. It's like we, we want to use it internally, but we also want to
 offer it to other institution. And we want to help them get on chain and, and use that as a better
 system than the current system that they're using. So, you know, 10 years is a, is a long time. I'm,
 I'm hoping we can do a lot of that in, uh, in less than 10 years. And hopefully we can see a lot
 of traction coming up, uh, sooner on that. Awesome. Super interesting. Uh, Johan, thank you so much
 for joining me. Uh, we'll be very excited to see, um, you know, all the, all the things that
 you guys are, are, are planning. Uh, maybe a Robinhood exchange or a Robinhood crypto exchange
 coming down the line. We shall see. I know you didn't want to stay much avoided, but, um,
 it seems like a, a potential interesting transition. Uh, but yeah, thanks again for
 joining me. This was great. Yeah. Thanks for having me with the fun call.
 [inaudible]
