TITLE: The Coming Collision of AI & Crypto: What Happens Next
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sR1B-ldXb6k
VIDEO_ID: sR1B-ldXb6k

TRANSCRIPT:
(upbeat music)
 - Welcome to Web3 with A16Z Crypto,
 your guide to the future of the internet.
 I'm Robert Hackett.
 Today's episode is a special one.
 It's a roundtable on some of the most compelling ideas
 at the intersection of AI and crypto,
 sourced from members of the A16Z crypto team.
 Today, you're gonna hear from builders, researchers,
 and deal makers who are all wrestling with the big question,
 how will these two powerful technologies collide,
 and what happens when they do?
 First, deal partner Sam Broner makes the case
 for giving AI agents universal identities.
 Then, research partners Scott Comyners
 presents how crypto can provide AI
 with levels and layers of rich context.
 You'll also hear from deal partners Liz Harkaby
 on AI monetization models.
 Cara Wu on the next evolution of web crawlers.
 Jay Drain on Proving Personhood online.
 And finally, security engineer Matt Gleason
 on how crypto turns internet advertising models on their head.
 This is a tour of big fresh ideas
 that hint at what an internet of the near future
 could look like.
 For the full list of ideas,
 check out our recent AI crypto crossovers package,
 which you can find at a16zcrypto.com.
 As a reminder, none of the content should be taken
 as investment, business, legal, or tax advice.
 Please see a16z.com/disclosures
 for more important information,
 including a link to a list of our investments.
 (upbeat music)
 All right Sam, so your contribution
 to this AI and crypto's use cases piece
 was that agents should have universal identity.
 What do you mean by that?
 I think that when you go to a traditional application,
 you go to the website or you go to the app on your phone,
 you log in and you see your stuff there.
 But what happens when you're working with an agent
 that might show up in its own app,
 but also on Slack or on a phone call over email, over text,
 it gets a lot harder to know when you're interacting
 with an agent with the right context
 and right capabilities that you're authorized against.
 And so a universal identity for agents
 is a way of expressing this.
 Like a unique, uniform resource identifier,
 but it's not really rich enough.
 And so like, how do you do payments?
 How do you list capabilities?
 How do you share a state?
 And so we start to make this point
 in longer strokes in that piece.
 So talk to me, talk to me about why this is important.
 Why does it matter that an agent
 should have an identity of its own?
 Agent state is not quite like traditional app state.
 You wanna talk to a certain model, a certain LLM,
 you wanna talk to a certain context,
 what does the agent know about you?
 You wanna talk to a certain set of capabilities.
 And all that wrapped together
 is what we think of as an agent.
 And I think that to connect with an agent like that,
 you're gonna need to be able to identify in a way
 that is richer than with websites.
 Let me give you an example.
 So if you wanna book a hotel today,
 you might go to a kayak.com or some other aggregator.
 But what if you wanna book a whole trip
 and you wanna do it with an agent?
 Well, you might text the agent and say,
 find me a nice hotel in Paris.
 You might go to the agent's website
 to look at pictures of the agent
 and you might call the agent.
 And for each of these three interactions,
 ideally you're talking to the same agent
 that remembers all of the rest of the context before.
 You could even imagine a situation where you're
 in another app, like you're maybe on your workplace slack,
 maybe you're sitting in a third party application
 looking at like food recommendations
 and you wanna bring that same agent into the context.
 That's a really rich interaction
 and you need a way of universally identifying
 and then locating that agent
 so you can bring it into whatever context you're working in
 even though you talk to it in multiple places.
 So just to make this really concrete for people,
 you're giving this example of booking a hotel,
 booking a trip, but you're literally in Paris right now
 sitting in a hotel room that you booked.
 And before we got on this call,
 you were talking to our producer
 about food recommendations in the city.
 So this is a very real problem
 that you are navigating right now.
 - Okay, well, I wanna go on to get a nice dinner
 with a good friend tomorrow night.
 But I will say, like I have the good fortune
 to have a person that I can talk to
 to help me book this restaurant.
 And I'll tell you what my experience is with them.
 I'm sending them links.
 I've talked to them on the phone.
 I've talked to them in person, obviously.
 And I've got, you know, I've got Google's reservation window
 that I can look at.
 But I'm sort of keeping track of all this information myself
 and the person that I work with, this assistant,
 you know, I know all the places I can contact them.
 And for our agents, we probably need a similar thing.
 We need a way of contacting them on any platform
 and sharing contacts with them
 while understanding their capabilities.
 And so for friends, I know their capabilities are like
 when they're awake and sort of if they're by their laptop
 or by their phone, 'cause they'll tell me all that.
 But for agents, we don't yet have a good way
 of expressing a set of capabilities like that.
 What do they have access to?
 What do they know about me?
 Are they sleep deprived like I am right now?
 'Cause I got off a Red Eye last night.
 And you might want to have an identity system
 that supports that kind of richer information.
 - So you talk in your contribution about how Amazon
 uses identifiers, it uses its own sort of spin on SKUs
 to identify products on their site.
 And then in that way to tag their sort of like digital
 representation to the real world.
 What is it about crypto that improves what we already have?
 - Most marketplaces have identity as one of the core
 building blocks of identifying market participants.
 So you go on Amazon and you see these different SKUs.
 Apple gives each app in the App Store, an ID on Facebook.
 You have an identifier that says who you are.
 But they don't expose those very well.
 It's a little hard to pull that out
 and use it in another context.
 We talk about this a lot with Farcaster,
 which is a crypto native social network
 where you can export your identity and use it in other
 places because it's built on blockchain rails.
 And so for agents, one of the beautiful things about them
 is that you can talk to them in multiple channels
 and with multiple contexts, it would be such a shame
 if agents got an identity from just one aggregator
 from one extractive network and then couldn't bring
 that identity to other places.
 'Cause I want to be able to talk to my agent on the phone
 by email in this app and in that app.
 And so I guess, yes, we have any other places
 that we don't have the type of rich identity
 that we need for agents in a way that's available anywhere,
 anytime without the risk of someone being able
 to take it away from the agent.
 I'll add one more thing, which is like,
 the agents, I'm sort of an anthropomorphizing them.
 Really, I'm talking about the entrepreneurs,
 like an entrepreneur builds an agent.
 And this is a new form of an application.
 It's something that you can use and have be useful to you.
 And I don't want entrepreneurs to be beholden
 to a extractive marketplace,
 which is like the only place their agents can live
 when clearly agents deserve to live anywhere.
 That's a core thing to think through,
 is how do we make sure this identity is available
 for anyone to build on top of?
 - So really, what I'm understanding here is,
 it's not just that the agent should have identity.
 It's really this concept of universality
 that is important.
 You want that agent not to just be tied
 to one particular service and potentially aligned
 with their interests over whoever else is.
 You want an agent that is universally identifiable
 across all different services and can be used across them.
 - Yeah, that's right.
 I mean, the universal identity for agents,
 sometimes people call it more like a passport.
 You want the identity to be there,
 but you also want to know a little bit about the agent.
 And maybe you want to be able to stamp
 every time you interact with it.
 So you want to say it's a little bit richer than DNS,
 which is the domain name service,
 which is what underlies URLs and websites,
 because you want it to be stateful
 and you might want to be able to do payments over it.
 But this rich universal identity can be built on blockchains
 and I think likely should be because it guarantees
 that it'll be permissionlessly composable,
 it'll be credibly neutral.
 It'll be accessible from anywhere
 in a way that traditional systems don't guarantee.
 - And by the way, while this is all happening
 in the agent space,
 I think Apple just enabled passports digitally on iPhones.
 So you've got meet space in one direction
 coming online and agents coming in with passports
 on the other side.
 - Yeah, so let's just talk about the first side.
 So Apple is letting you host your passport in Apple.
 And that's like very good.
 But it happens because the government is saying,
 all US citizens can have a passport.
 It's sort of like how Apple is required
 to load websites on the phone.
 Like there is this resource that everyone has
 and can use and Apple is picking it up.
 And I'd like to see a similar thing for agents
 where you have a universal identity
 that people are using to describe agents
 and Apple, Google, meta all refer to that same identity
 instead of them building their own in-house
 and forcing agent developers to do complicated things
 to bridge the agents' characteristics across platforms
 or even worse being stuck within one platform
 and having sort of a toll booth as you try to leave.
 - So you're pointing out that in the Apple context,
 it's really a top-down kind of situation
 and maybe you would be looking more
 for this bottoms-up kind of thing
 where you could have agents get identity
 from all different sorts of places
 and carry that wherever.
 - Yeah, that's right.
 And we're so early that we have the opportunity.
 It's path dependent.
 Like there's a lot of ways agent identity could go.
 And right now because we're at a crossroads,
 I think we should try to make an identity
 that works well for the entrepreneurs
 that are building agents long-term.
 - Okay, well, thanks for joining us, Sam.
 - All right, go, thanks.
 - Okay, so Scott, you had a number of contributions
 to this list.
 You described four of your ideas
 as having to do with context.
 And the fifth one, which we'll get to afterward,
 you said has to do with guardrails.
 So let's talk about the first four
 and how they can all be lumped together
 with this idea of context in relation to AI.
 - So just very quickly, like there are many different senses
 in which AI changes how much we need context
 and the types of context we need in our digital spaces.
 So for example, perhaps the simplest,
 everybody who has ever opened up chat GPT or CLAWD
 or any of these personal use AI systems
 has probably had the experience of having to re-teach
 the AI a bunch of stuff that you thought it knew about you
 because you had some interaction with it
 where you said, I code everything in Python,
 please give me this code in Python
 or I really, really, really like this particular football team
 or something, please tell me about this football team
 or this is the type of math I'm trying to learn,
 any of these sorts of things.
 The second you open a new shell, it's typically gone.
 This is such an issue that we're actually seeing
 beginnings of marketplaces in stable context,
 prompts that can cue the AI to do a specific thing
 or bots that you can rent that have specific contextual frames
 that sort of save you the trouble of teaching it
 how to draw anime characters or something like that.
 But all of that should be able to persist
 and blockchains are a great tool for that
 and perhaps the unique tool that allows you
 to own your context, guarantee that it's interoperable,
 you can take it from platform to platform
 and guarantee that it's forward compatible
 that even the AI's that haven't been built yet today
 will be able to interact with it and interpret it.
 >> This is such a cool idea.
 What you're describing right now is that the status quo in AI
 is you have like the world's nicest, most eager butler
 except the butler has amnesia.
 Like constantly forgets things that are important
 about your relationship.
 >> Exactly.
 >> And the thing that blockchains can bring to the equation
 is if they have one thing, they have memory.
 Like they are a database, they can keep state,
 they have storage, indefinitely, well into the future
 and are, they're hard to manipulate as well.
 So you can be sure that that data is non-corrupted
 and accessible and has integrity, all of that good stuff.
 >> And that you have control.
 >> And that you have control of the data
 and where it's used.
 And eventually when we get there,
 enough ability to permission which application see
 which parts of it, then you can choose your contextual frame
 when you enter into an application.
 >> You know, one question that I have about this
 is despite blockchains being great at memory,
 you know, someone might counter that.
 Yeah, but they're not as efficient.
 Well, I was gonna say they're kind of inefficient databases.
 You know, they are really like,
 do you need a database of that capacity?
 You know, that sort of like global
 and has memory persist forever?
 Like do you need to go whole hog in that direction?
 Or can you use like something quicker or more efficient?
 >> Yeah, great question.
 So I mean, so you may not want this stuff to persist forever.
 And indeed, it could maybe drift
 or you could instruct it on when it decays
 or something of the sort.
 And certainly it's gonna need to be updateable, right?
 Maybe you are really into Python
 and then you discover scheme and you're like,
 oh my gosh, why was I not always coding and scheme?
 And so you need to like modify the context frame
 that you're carrying with you.
 But it's really important
 if we're gonna have sort of an individually controlled
 context system, that system has to be interoperable
 and it has to be sort of accessible
 to any AI application that gets created,
 even ones that don't exist yet, right?
 It has to have sort of a public API
 that is standardized and forwards compatible, right?
 It can be adapted for any system that comes out
 rather than just sort of being built
 for the form factor of whatever exists today.
 And blockchains are basically the only technology
 we have that does this, that allows you to commit
 to interoperability and that creates everything
 within a framework of public standards
 that are forwards compatible.
 So let's dip into each of these ideas
 and how they relate to context.
 Okay, let me just jump right from where we were
 to prove a personhood.
 Jay and I wrote a piece about proof of personhood
 and the takeaway there is that forwards compatibility
 and commitment to interoperability are essential
 for any sort of individual identifier, right?
 Just like your driver's license,
 you need to be able to present it to anybody
 who can verify that it's a driver's license
 and say this is my proof of ID.
 And you need to, for example, be able to present it
 to a restaurant to prove your age maybe,
 even if the restaurant was not built
 when you got your driver's license.
 That's forward compatibility.
 So for the exact same reasons you need this
 for your context, you're gonna carry it
 from application to application,
 you need this for your identifiers,
 your proof of humanity and your proof of who you are.
 Got it, okay, so that's the first case.
 You also wrote a piece with Sam Bronner
 about vibe coding and making sure that software
 that you create on a whim or whatever can stay up to date
 and doesn't get broken.
 Exactly, so there's a stack of context hierarchy here.
 So we were first talking about your personal context
 for your interaction with applications.
 The second one is global context about you.
 So you control your contextual information
 to every other application about who you are and so forth.
 But also when you're vibe coding
 or otherwise using AI to build software,
 the feature of this technology is enabling people
 to write custom workflows and code,
 even if they've never studied programming before
 or may not even know exactly what the system's doing, right?
 They're appealing to an AI to do all the library extensions
 and connections and things further to produce the thing they want.
 That's a huge feature.
 That's the superpower of AI coding.
 But it has the challenge that you're introducing
 two types of entropy.
 You're both building entropy into your programs.
 You're sort of adding things into your programs
 that you yourself may not understand
 and that the AI may not entirely understand.
 It added them in because they sort of predicted
 that they should go there and they might work,
 but it might be that neither you nor the AI knows why.
 And you're introducing entropy relative to everybody else.
 You might have a program that fills out billing slips
 and your colleague might have a program
 that fills out billing slips that you both vibe code it up
 and they're totally different from each other
 and they're producing output that doesn't interoperate
 with whoever in the billing department
 is processing the billing slips.
 They wrote their own vibe coded workflow
 and it doesn't work with yours.
 And so what Sam and I describe are what we call synchrony layers,
 basically like protocol layers that get wrapped
 and sort of like we have with software libraries today,
 but software libraries are updated very infrequently, right?
 A software library, you know, you put out the next release
 and then maybe people suggest things
 over a six to 12 month period
 and then you get another release maybe.
 Here what we need are fully dynamic layers
 that both establish boundaries and updates
 within Europe software and, you know,
 standardizations across different peoples vibe coded software
 so that you can be sure that you haven't somehow absorbed
 a malicious code and so that other people can be sure
 that they can work with what you're creating and vice versa.
 And so that's like shared context.
 We started with individual personal context,
 individual global context.
 This is like individual but shared context.
 - Have you vibe coded anything, Scott?
 - Oh, absolutely.
 I've most recently been using this to create various forms
 of puzzles in the form of fully on chain SVGs
 and other sort of image structures,
 but I've also used it in my research
 in a bunch of different ways, right?
 Oh, okay, but the real triumph?
 Here's a great example, by the way.
 Here's a place where I have no idea how this worked.
 There is this conference, it's the top conference,
 the intersections of economics and computer science.
 And every year when you have a paper accepted,
 you have to format the abstract or the paper
 in a particular way.
 And this year we had to make a very subtle
 and complicated modification to the formatting package.
 There was something wrong with the way it was printing
 the co-authors of the paper's name line, basically.
 And this thing is in unreadable code.
 And so we vibe coded a script to fix this code
 to do what we wanted it to do.
 And like, it was magical, but for example,
 we then had to take this product, right?
 We took our final source code and shipped it to the publisher.
 The publisher has the original version of the library,
 not ours, and so when they sent us back the page proof
 or whatever, we're going to have to check to make sure
 that they didn't break this thing that we fixed.
 And that's a place where a synchrony layer would be useful.
 Like if they have reference to the fact
 that we've made this change, the library file,
 then we could be confident that they wouldn't recompile
 our abstract and get something different.
 - I don't know if this is directly applicable,
 but I vibe coded myself a habit tracking app.
 And what would be very cool is if I could have friends
 of mine have their own instances of the app
 so we could track our streaks and compete against one another.
 - Oh my gosh, let me have that.
 - But yeah, it would be helpful to have
 that kind of shared state that we can all rely on.
 - Exactly.
 And this again, shared state.
 The second you say shared state,
 blockchain suddenly makes sense, right?
 Like you're like, here's an instance
 where you're trying to share information.
 You're trying to create sort of like a local shared state
 among a bunch of individuals.
 And that's exactly what blockchains are good at.
 So then the last step of the hierarchy,
 and sometimes the most global is when you actually
 have to establish global context.
 Here we're talking about registries.
 And you can think registry of deeds,
 you can think registry of membership
 in a, I don't know, famous fancy society or something.
 Like, and in the roundup,
 I wrote about registry of intellectual property.
 And the registry of intellectual property
 is particularly important as creative generative AI
 is leading to this explosion of remixes and transformations.
 And the internet has put pressure on intellectual property
 since inception, but it's putting more pressure
 on intellectual property at a very accelerating pace
 than we've ever seen from digital technology before.
 And the funny thing about it is it could be a feature.
 Like there are all sorts of business models
 and we're starting to see people experimenting
 with business models around remixing and licensing
 as the primary structure for creative IP.
 But the existing intellectual property systems,
 especially in the United States, aren't configured
 in such a way that you can just interact with them digitally
 and they certainly aren't configured in a way
 which you can just establish provenance
 for something off the bat.
 In fact, we've seen instances where provenance
 sort of gets reversed because somebody races
 to the intellectual property system
 to register ahead of the person who actually created it.
 And so again, blockchains are a technology
 for establishing immutable proof of provenance
 with guaranteed interoperability.
 And that makes them ideal for having public registries
 and things like intellectual property
 and then serving as the programmable layer.
 My friends at Story Protocol,
 one of our portfolio companies referred to programmable IP
 that intellectual property should be directly accessible
 to the programming of the software layer.
 And that possibility is only just coming online
 and it's awesome.
 - What I love about your framing is the successive ways
 that it zooms out.
 It starts with me proof of personhood.
 I wanna like bring my identity around.
 So it starts with me, then it goes to us,
 this sort of shared state concept
 and then it goes to everybody.
 Like a global kind of shared state.
 - Exactly.
 And then in math, we would say the dual.
 The space around the space we just structured
 are the guardrails around AI transactions and actions.
 So I personally believe that we're gonna see
 a huge marketplace of AIs interacting with AIs
 without direct human oversight or supervision.
 I don't know exactly how long it's gonna take to get there,
 but you're gonna have an AI that's going out there.
 I love Honkaku Mystery Novels.
 - Yes, I know this from our reading lists
 where you've recommended a few of them.
 - Exactly. Like every reading list,
 I have another Honkaku Mystery Novels.
 Honkaku Mystery Novels,
 they're these incredibly beautifully written
 and very puzzling mystery novels from Japan.
 The style is Orthodox.
 Honkaku loosely translates to Orthodox
 and they're 100% fair play.
 Any clue that the detective sees you see.
 And so it really is a puzzle.
 You have to figure out, okay, with what I've seen,
 how can I unravel this to explain the mystery?
 I love these mysteries.
 Every month or so, I scour the internet to see
 which new ones have appeared in English translation.
 I should have a bot.
 I would love to have a bot just doing that for me.
 Without me, they would just like order it for me.
 Like, you know, if it finds one,
 order it from whoever the publisher is,
 have it shipped to me.
 I would love to read it.
 I've read as many of them as I can find.
 - That's great.
 You could preload your wallet, just give it a monthly allowance,
 you know, 20 US stablecoins or whatever.
 - And that's exactly it.
 In order for this to work, I have to have confidence
 that the AI understands the task,
 that it can't be gained by somebody else creating like,
 you know, honkaku.net where they just send blank pages
 to steal my money.
 And that the AI can't spend my entire bank account
 if it discovers honkaku.net doesn't realize it's,
 you know, not real and you know,
 sort of buys like 10,000 copies of books or something.
 And then I get this huge empty book box
 and I'm thinking, wow, now there's a mystery.
 In order for that to happen,
 we need well-defined payment rails
 and well-defined guard rails for these agents
 to interact with each other
 and sort of end commerce sites or end applications.
 And that again is something
 that blockchains are ideally positioned for
 because they're about enabling you
 to make immutable commitments
 and make those commitments
 part of the running of a software process.
 You can basically tell an agent,
 you have access just to this wallet,
 you have access to just these memory areas
 and you have these search instructions
 that you can't go outside of
 other than that, go find anything you can.
 - I think that's a perfect note to leave off
 on this stuff, need some rules of the road
 and blockchains can provide it.
 Great, thank you so much for joining us, Scott.
 - Thank you, Q&E.
 - All right, take care.
 So Liz, it's actually perfect to have you on next.
 We just spoke to Scott about some of his ideas,
 including his last ones he was talking about,
 sending an agent out to go do his shopping for him,
 which seems like a pretty natural segue
 into what you're writing about,
 which is about how crypto in conjunction with AI agents
 could potentially help solve this monetization issue
 that the web is facing right now.
 So let's hear from you, describe your idea.
 - Yeah, so this came about through a number of conversations
 that we have internally around what is the next generation
 of the contract of the internet look like,
 the original internet monetizing this idea of attention,
 mostly, right?
 So if you think about how Google came about and SEO
 is all direct traffic to your website in return,
 you let me surface your content on Google,
 and this is kind of this fair exchange of sites
 get more traffic and Google gets to make a lot of money
 on advertising.
 And so what does the next generation of that look like?
 - And the reason that we need a next generation
 is 'cause that model has basically collapsed now
 with nobody needs to go visit websites anymore.
 You can just get all the information you need
 from an AI service or even Google
 just putting the information up there
 at the top of the webpage, their AI overviews,
 I think they're called.
 - Yes, exactly.
 So you no longer need to actually go visit
 the underlying site.
 You can get these awesome summaries either through ChatchBT
 or through Google's One Box or Proplexity
 or whatever kind of tool you're using these days.
 Because of that, you're kind of breaking
 this economic contract of what is the purpose
 of putting that information out into the world for free
 as the underlying content site.
 If you're not getting anything in return.
 So how do you fix that?
 And so I think there's a couple of different ways
 you can approach this and different strategies
 people are taking for how do you fix this monetization
 and economic model if we're no longer directing people
 to sites and how do you actually continue to incentivize
 new content and the long tail of content on the internet
 if we're breaking this economic model.
 It might mean agents go out and just pay per data point
 and they go out and as they need more context,
 they pay for it.
 The idea I walk through is this more fanciful idea
 of what would it look like to do revenue sharing
 through transactions.
 In my view, people have gotten pretty accustomed
 to the web being free and it seems unlikely
 that they're willing to kind of fund these agents
 to go do search for them when it would be free
 for them to go to Google or it's free today
 for them to use Google One Box or Proplexity
 or these free versions of the agents.
 And so if people aren't willing to spend money upfront
 for the agent to pay for the data,
 what else might this look like?
 And so one idea that I just kind of walked through
 is this idea of transaction sharing
 between all the content sites and the end action.
 So you send your agent out to shop for you.
 If it actually ends up buying something,
 there's some sort of revenue share back
 to all the places that it got context for that.
 - And by the way, it's cliche to say
 that it's actually not free, you're paying with your data.
 But despite that being cliche, it is extremely true.
 The web which seems free is monetized.
 It's just monetized in a way that you're not really seeing.
 And so even if you're like,
 oh, well, how are we going to add in all these transactions,
 these payments and whatever,
 the thing is all these ad networks have all of that
 there already, it's just not in front of your face.
 So it's not that radical a shift as one might imagine.
 - Yeah, exactly.
 Today you're basically doing this exact same flow
 just with extra steps.
 So you get served an ad when you go visit a content site,
 the idea being that at some point you will convert
 on that ad and actually go buy something.
 And so the company is the ad agency,
 the people advertising are willing to pay upfront
 for that ad, assuming you will then convert
 into a transaction.
 The idea is to make that process more direct
 given that we no longer have this attention
 on the underlying site.
 So instead of going to Google, getting routed to a site,
 getting served an ad, possibly converting on that ad
 and going and buying something later down the line,
 that happens all kind of in at one flow through
 of when that transaction occurs,
 everyone involved in that transaction gets paid back
 automatically.
 And the great thing about that is that the attribution
 is actually possible to trace because the agent
 is pulling in context in real time.
 And so it's not as kind of intangible as a human
 who might visit a million sites and see a billboard
 and see a friend talking about something
 and trying to attribute back why they actually bought something
 is a much more complex process than just attributing back
 what the agent used in its path
 to recommend to that end transaction.
 - So what are the technical pieces
 that need to be in place for this to happen?
 - Yeah, so you need the ability to do
 these very complex splits of nano payments,
 which today is very challenging to impossible
 given just the basic overhead
 of a single credit card transaction
 makes it infeasible to do these like a 10th of a cent
 or 100th of a cent or 1000th of a cent transactions.
 - And that's because there's just like a basic fee
 on a credit card transaction.
 I forget how much it is like 30 cents or something,
 like which immediately gets rid of any opportunity
 of doing anything beneath that cost point.
 - Exactly.
 And then you would also need to be able to do
 this attribution of what data and context
 is an agent pulling in.
 And then you would just need a way to actually pay that out.
 On crypto rails, this is as simple as putting in the metadata
 wallet address that is paid out to every time you use the data,
 you could even guard it or pay well in that way
 just for agents to scrape it.
 But in the traditional financial world,
 this would be significantly harder to figure out
 how to actually pay each content provider,
 figure out a bank account or credit card number or
 how you actually get that money back to them.
 So yeah, needed ability to attribute where the data came from
 to do these small and complex payment splits
 and then actually be able to pay the underlying content creators.
 - Do you think that we are going to get there in time
 before AI eats all the good information
 and sort of forces content creators to question
 whether they wanna start publishing openly on the web?
 - Yeah, I mean, I hope so.
 I think it's definitely feasible.
 It seems like today the direction we're mostly going in
 is remaining with the agent as the intermediary.
 So rather than you having this flow back effect
 or this revenue sharing effect instead,
 the agent companies like OpenAI or Anthropic or whoever
 are paying directly for access to this data
 through these big data deals with Reddit
 or the New York Times or whoever.
 So then you're paying your monthly subscription to OpenAI,
 they're paying an annual subscription to the data provider
 and then that data is surfaced in that agent
 that does start to address this issue,
 but going down that path ends up with this kind of
 very siloed information where you're only gonna get
 surfaced information on OpenAI with companies
 and OpenAI has signed deals with
 and you lose the openness of the web
 and especially you lose the long tail
 of individual content creators that can't get these
 partnerships with OpenAI and so their information
 is not surfaced the way that it might be today in Google
 where even if it's not promoted
 so it might not be on the first page,
 you can still always find any data you want
 and it kind of gives you this open access
 that these information silos might not.
 So it feels like we're heading more and more
 in that direction, but hopefully we can make it
 a little bit more fair and open.
 - Excellent, while speaking of fair and open,
 our website where you can read Liz
 and the rest of these contributions is open,
 not pay walled, so you can go read these posts there.
 Liz, thanks so much for coming on
 and sharing your idea.
 - Awesome, thank you.
 All right, Cara, so we just spoke to Liz
 and she described her ideas for how AI agents
 could be monetized potentially
 or how content and data on the web
 could continue to be monetized such that
 like AI doesn't completely cannibalize the whole thing
 and how crypto can potentially offer the ability to do
 nano payments and other sorts of things
 to prevent the web from, as Chris would say,
 eating its own seed corn or corn seed,
 or I don't know, some kind of farming reference seed corn,
 okay.
 - That's how you know he's from the Midwest.
 - Exactly, yeah.
 - Same.
 - So this actually kind of meshes quite perfectly
 with your contribution to the AI and crypto ideas list here,
 which has to do with web crawlers.
 I'll just set the context and say,
 people hear the word AI agents
 and the word might sound kind of funky and new and buzzy,
 whatever, but like I love how you start off
 by saying that web crawlers,
 which have been around for decades now,
 are a kind of first example of this,
 like a primitive AI agent
 that has existed on the web for a long time.
 - Yeah, so the reason I started thinking about this
 was because I did a panel last year on AI agent use cases
 and at the time I said, you know,
 the only AI agents that have real product market fit
 are agents as entertainment and coding agents.
 And then I started thinking about it a little bit further
 after I left the stage and I was like, wait, I'm wrong.
 Actually, the AI agent that has the best product market fit
 is in any of these new things.
 It's actually something that's been around
 since the very genesis of the internet, so to speak,
 which is the web crawler, which is an agent
 that literally represent what we call a user agent,
 autonomously navigates the web,
 decides what data to collect, decides which links to follow,
 which paths to bark down, and then comes back
 and gathers that data on behalf of the user.
 Today, nearly half of all internet traffic is non-human
 and, you know, is representing a user agent
 is like a bot or a web crawler.
 - Wow, so the scales have tipped.
 The web is now more bot, more automated than it is human.
 - Yes, and that's why I say that this is the product
 with the best product market fit is just because
 the population, like if you were to take a census
 of internet activity, like the users of CPU bandwidth
 or like compute for website hosting,
 the vast majority of it is coming from non-human sources,
 is coming from these AI agents.
 So whether or not you believe that to be product market fit,
 the volume is sort of staggering.
 It used to be the case that you would only use a crawler
 for a small and constrained use case today.
 Every single major company has an AI crawler,
 whether it's Amazon using their crawlers
 to track pricing for vendors who also sell
 through their own channels in addition to
 on the Amazon marketplace, or actually the most common crawler
 if you check in the network activity tab of any web pages
 is usually byte spider, which is TikTok's crawler,
 which is feeding into the TikTok feeds
 to decide what is relevant for the algorithm, yeah.
 - So yeah, it's not just Google anymore.
 There are crawlers all over the place.
 That's so interesting that TikTok actually has
 like the biggest crawler.
 - Yes, yeah, they call it byte spider.
 Every major internet company has a special little name
 that is some derivative of their company name
 to represent their user agent, web crawler.
 And the point is like, okay, so why do these companies
 want to crawl the web?
 Well, Amazon wants to be able to penalize the merchants
 on its site that charge a lower price
 on their own first party platform.
 So they will literally downrank vendors
 that have their own first party sales channels
 and give favorable pricing to their own channels.
 And this is like a core part of how they design
 their algorithms today.
 Like their algorithms are not only trained
 on this data that they crawl and search for,
 but also use it as real time data to like up and downrank.
 They use it as part of their rag,
 which is retrieval augmented generation.
 So they use it real time, both at inference time,
 but then also in pre-training and post-training.
 So this has now become a really important part.
 I think there's this idea that the internet-scale data
 that is accessible to common crawl is commoditized,
 but it certainly is.
 But it's also used at like every point in model generation,
 both in the training and in the inference,
 and at inference time.
 So this is like a really important piece
 of internet infrastructure.
 And what's really interesting is like,
 yes, the common crawl accessible data
 is becoming commoditized, but it's also the case
 that an input to this problem is that the surface area
 of common crawl accessible content
 or like crawl or accessible content
 has contracted dramatically because there's no incentive
 for creators to continue to supply that content
 to crawlers for free.
 And this was something that Chris and I wrote about
 in our blog post about Story Protocol.
 About a year ago, we hypothesized
 that the social contract of the internet
 was going to fall apart,
 where creators are incentivized to provide their content
 for free so that platforms can index
 and then provide distribution back to them as a service.
 That was like the original social contract of the internet.
 Today, if the primary distribution engine
 and the way information gets surfaced
 is through LLMs, which do not provide attribution
 back to those original content sources,
 there's no incentive for creators
 to provide that content for free.
 So what you see is increasingly things are put
 behind paywalls, but also you can see
 in the open Cloudflare data that websites are choosing
 to just block crawlers altogether.
 Any crawler that is known to be associated
 with like an AI user agent can be blocked in one click
 on Cloudflare or any other posting provider.
 And so about a year ago, only about 9%
 of the top 10,000 websites were blocking AI crawlers.
 Today, that number is around 37%.
 And so, of course, the closer you get to the top 100 websites,
 the numbers skew up dramatically
 because content is their business, right?
 So they're very aware of this fact.
 And then if you go to the top million sites,
 website owners are less proactive
 about this kind of blocking activity
 because they're just less savvy
 or less concerned about this distribution problem.
 - In the last era of the web,
 there's been this sort of steady rise
 of people adopting ad blockers,
 but it sounds like in this current moment,
 this shift that we are seeing now
 into the AI sort of dominated web,
 this throwing up paywalls and putting crawl blockers up
 is happening much more quickly.
 - Yes, and part of the reason this happens
 is because of course, firms are more rational actors,
 so to speak, like firms are very quick to respond
 when they understand that the basis
 of their business is being disrupted.
 - Yeah, if it affects your bottom line, you're gonna notice.
 - Yes, and firms are in general much quicker
 to act rationally than consumers are
 because they're very aware, you know,
 they have people doing analysis
 on what drives their bottom line.
 Basically, all of this is to say,
 I've been thinking about how we've arrived
 at this sort of standstill.
 We are entering this data constrained world
 where it's not clear that models
 will be able to continue improving at the rate
 that they've been improving
 because supply of non-commoditized data
 and supply of common crawl accessible data
 is becoming increasingly constrained
 for all the reasons we've discussed.
 So that's on one side of the standstill,
 and then on the other side of the standstill,
 it's like, okay, if we're getting all of our information
 from LLMs, how do creators get distribution?
 Or how do people who are creating original content
 get attribution and get paid for providing the information
 that these models were supposedly trained off of?
 And I've been thinking, like, what if instead of,
 you know, website owners paying CDNs to outright block anyone
 who shows up and seems like they might be a bot,
 we met somewhere in the middle where AI bots could pay
 for the right to collect data in real time
 as they're visiting all of these websites
 and doing their crawling work.
 And this is where blockchains come in.
 In this scenario, every webcrawler agent could have
 a little bit of crypto that they control,
 and they might be able to engage in an on-chain negotiation
 with the bouncer agent that represents a website.
 And they might be able to do some sort of challenge
 or transaction or negotiation and decide, okay,
 this is like the auction price for collecting
 this kind of data on our site today.
 And you might be able to initiate that payment
 through an open protocol like X402,
 which was released by the Coinbase team
 and is like perfect for this use case.
 So that's the general idea.
 It's a kind of lofty thing,
 and it's going to be very challenging, of course,
 because it requires a lot of different website owners
 to buy in, right? And at the very least,
 it will require CloudFlare or some big CDN
 to get on board with this new standard,
 which would essentially take the place
 of the robots exclusion standard,
 which is how webcrawlers get turned away today.
 And that's how it's been since the '90s.
 >> So what you're describing is basically
 going from a world where we have these bespoke content
 licensing partnerships between some AI company
 and content provider, like say, a major newspaper or magazine
 or something, where they strike a deal,
 they give however many millions of dollars
 and they get the content and return
 to supply into their models.
 Instead of that world where you have these bespoke arrangements,
 you're talking about a world where you have a marketplace
 that is designed specifically for agents to come on board
 and negotiate these things in a more sort of automated way,
 in a standardized and automated way,
 rather than a bespoke and kind of like custom way
 that we're seeing right now.
 >> Yeah, exactly.
 >> I would maybe draw the analogy to say that
 we've actually seen something like this on the web before.
 Like the first banner ad was on hotwire.com, AT&T bought it
 and that was the first display banner ad.
 And then eventually from there,
 we had the development of ad networks
 that take care of all this thing in the background
 at the blink of an eye.
 It became standardized, professionalized.
 And so maybe that is the exact sort of thing
 we're going to see with AI agents moving forward.
 >> Right, and you can generalize this
 to be almost like an access control network
 and not just a web crawler network.
 'Cause I think one question emerges
 like how do you decide whether somebody
 is a bot or a real human?
 Like that's a prerequisite to being able to enforce
 this kind of standard or policy.
 And one challenge is that crawlers can spoof themselves
 as actual users.
 They can say that they're Mozilla, X, Firefox.
 They can pose as a user, as a real human on the internet.
 And it can be very difficult to differentiate
 between a bot that claims that it's a user
 and an actual user.
 You sort of rely on the integrity of the bot creator
 to make a very helpful name like Bitespider
 to identify itself, right?
 I think the other thing is you would have to create
 a multi lane highway to differentiate
 between humans and bots.
 And maybe the answer is that you just assume
 everyone's a bot unless they have some session cookie
 in their browser that says, this is Cara's world ID.
 And this is how you know that's a human.
 And it's also the case that you can imagine a world
 in which you have an agentic browser
 that has a notion of like who the user actually is
 that has a sense of the user's identity.
 And then you might actually have a whole cohort of agents
 that you can delegate different fine grained access control
 passes to.
 So one might be Cara's authorized official representative
 that has access to all my bank accounts
 and can actually access websites as my user agent.
 But I might also have Cara's spider
 that is not an authorized representative of me
 but has some money and can go pay to crawl
 other people's websites.
 - Well, as you mentioned at the start of this conversation,
 the fact that more than half of internet traffic
 is now generated by bots, it seems like it would make sense
 to put the burden of proof on the user
 to have to show that they are in fact human.
 You might have to assume that everything is a bot
 and then use some proof of personhood
 to enable people to differentiate themselves.
 - Right, the best case scenario is we get into this world
 where everything is free for humans.
 You know, information wants to be free, media wants to be free,
 let that be free for real eyeballs.
 And then everything is just extremely highly taxed
 for bots that are either representatives of firms
 and like have some sort of underlying economic incentive
 or like economic subsidy, basically,
 to go and browse the internet.
 - Cara, thank you so much for your time.
 I could not ask for a better layup
 for our next conversation with Jay
 where we're talking about proof of personhood.
 So thank you also for that.
 - I aim to please, that's my job.
 It's almost like I work with these people.
 - Incredible, all right.
 Well, thank you, take care, Cara.
 - Thanks, bye.
 - All right, Jay, thanks for being with us.
 - Yeah, of course.
 - Okay, so we just got off the line with Cara
 who is describing an internet
 in which you've got a lane for humans
 and a lane for bots potentially,
 which kind of is the perfect setup
 for your idea on the AI and crypto list,
 which is about proof of personhood.
 Tell us what you are putting forward.
 - Yeah, of course, the context for what I wrote
 and what Scott and I wrote is AI and generative AI
 are mind-blowingly incredible but have massively increased
 the cognitive overload of using today's internet.
 So consumers are constantly worried,
 is the person that I'm interacting with real
 is the content that I'm consuming online real?
 Is it coming from the person that I think it's coming from?
 And products and services and companies
 have to worry about protecting users' trust
 and preserving valuable resources like compute or IP
 or data or bandwidth or customer support.
 And what we think the most credible solution to that
 is proof of personhood,
 which is a mechanism that enables anyone to prove
 to another app or service or human
 that they are a verifiably unique human being.
 And what it does kind of like what Cara was mentioning
 is it effectively divides the internet
 into an internet with human beings and agents and bots
 and an internet that is exclusively for human beings.
 And where all the services and the apps and the protocols
 on this side of the internet or this lane of the internet
 is just humans.
 And what's really exciting about that
 is we have decentralized proof of personhood mechanisms,
 like world's proof of human or world ID.
 - Yeah, let's talk about this.
 So world just launched in the US,
 which is a pretty big deal.
 And I think that's probably what people think of
 when they think of proof of personhood.
 They probably think of world ID first.
 - When they think of decentralized proof of personhood
 specifically.
 - Yeah, okay, so tell us the difference.
 - Decentralized proof of personhood is unique
 and that it's fully censorship resistant.
 It's secure, it's unstoppable.
 It can't be taken down by a centralized party
 or a government or entity.
 It's incredibly neutral,
 meaning it's fully transparent.
 And there's not a gatekeeper that can discriminate
 in how an ID is issued.
 - Unlike a passport which potentially
 you can get your passport taken away
 or even if we want to extend the idea of identity
 and talk about like a bank account,
 you can get your bank account frozen.
 And it can be denied, it can be frozen,
 it can be deemed invalid by some service or entity.
 And decentralized proof of personhood is incredibly neutral.
 Beyond that, it enables permissionless accessibility
 for developers or platforms.
 There's no centralized party that controls the access
 or approval or can block a certain use case or application.
 And perhaps most importantly, it's self custodial,
 which means in some cases it's privacy preserving
 like world ID and then users have full control
 over their identity data and have full autonomy over it as well.
 - But your idea here, it's not just about proof of personhood,
 it's about this idea of forward compatibility.
 Maybe you could zero in on that
 and explain what you mean there.
 - Yeah, so forward compatibility
 or I think it's also often called
 like upwards compatibility means that the system can be updated
 and still work properly with any applications or services
 that want to work with that system or ID system.
 - Okay, and that's important here because
 that is important here because centralized identity systems
 require an upgrade or update from a single party
 that controls the data or stores the data, et cetera.
 And so here it is fully trustless for both users
 and developers and they don't have to think about
 the maintenance costs or overhead that comes with
 identity systems and the kind of centralized domain.
 - Gotcha.
 So people are probably pretty familiar
 with what world is doing.
 There was a Time Magazine story.
 The orb was on the cover.
 They've gotten pretty good coverage all over.
 But who else is working on this idea?
 Where else might people encounter it?
 - There's another decentralized proof of personhood
 startup called Self.
 And then there's a kind of similar protocol
 for verifiable credentials called the Solana Attestation
 Service, which is really new.
 And they allow issuers to associate information
 like a KYC verification or geographic eligibility
 or accreditation status with a user's wallet.
 And so these attestations are signed, they're verifiable
 and then users can take those across a number
 of different applications without exposing any
 of the sensitive data on chain or having to go through
 these verification steps over and over again.
 - Amazing.
 And by the way, listeners, we just had Anatola Yaquavenko
 on our podcast.
 So you can check out that episode.
 It's called The Inside Story of Solana.
 Jay, anything else you wanna mention before we head on out?
 - Yeah, I'd say what's probably most exciting about this
 is that we are seeing a number of use cases
 for decentralized proof of personhood pop up
 both inside and outside of crypto.
 I think inside of crypto, you see a lot of really cool
 protocols like Morpho, which does lending,
 offering exclusive lending rates to folks who are verified
 with a world ID.
 There's this kind of experiment around priority block space
 for people who are verified, world ID holders.
 And then outside of crypto, you have integrations
 with Match Group, which allows them to add
 this enhanced layer of trust for users
 and verify that users are above 18
 without revealing any sensitive information.
 And you have integrations with Shopify
 where Shopify merchants lose a ton of money
 to bots that are stealing discounts
 or people that are spinning up fake emails
 to claim multiple discounts.
 And they can offer discounts exclusively
 to people that have a world ID.
 So I think the acceleration of use cases
 both inside and outside of crypto
 is really, really exciting for proof of personhood.
 - That's pretty awesome.
 It sounds like there is going to be a fast lane
 developed now maybe for humans.
 And once the service that you're getting
 is so much more convenient or useful or quick or whatever,
 that seems like a pretty good road to adoption.
 And you see that even at airports, you know?
 I've got digital ID and breeze on past the security line
 makes it quite a nice experience.
 Jay, thanks so much for being here and sharing the idea.
 - Thanks for having me on.
 - Matt, hey, welcome.
 So you are closing us out for our roundup
 of AI and crypto related ideas.
 I think we've all had the experience
 of having creepy ads chase us around the web.
 I recently visited a cavern
 and now I'm getting cavern related content on Instagram.
 So that's interesting.
 Tell me what you mean by making ads personalized
 and tailored but not creepy and how crypto
 can in fact solve this problem.
 - So I think it's actually best to take a step back
 and to describe it in kind of two parts.
 So if we're envisioning what's happening in the ecosystem,
 in crypto, we're starting to get like really low fee
 transactions, which basically mean money can flow really fast
 as well as some digital identity systems.
 So the ability to prove a person as a person.
 - And we just talked about that with Jay, actually,
 who was on right before you.
 - Exactly, this is a little bit tangential to that,
 which is the case of like,
 what if we can start decentralizing
 basically recommendation engines?
 So with AI and AI agents,
 especially with people trusting them,
 can people either run their own
 or have people run their own on their behalf
 to kind of advocate for their own interests?
 So instead of you receiving ads for caverns
 because like you clicked on a cavern once,
 it happens to just know that like,
 hey, your car is getting kind of old
 and you're looking for a new one.
 And so it starts to like reach out,
 find ads for cars you would like,
 which are gonna be very specific and tailored to you.
 And then starts to like, go to the ad people
 and be like, hey, I'd love to serve this ad to this guy,
 but how much will you pay me?
 And by it, it means you.
 - So that's a really fascinating inversion
 on the way advertising works today.
 You know, right now, basically you've got big companies
 that have to make all these guesses about who you are
 and what your needs might be based on your demographics
 or what little information they can glean
 about what kind of person you might be.
 But what you're describing is like, okay, I have an agent
 and that agent happens to know that I bought my Subaru
 in like 2017.
 And you know, it's got however many miles on it,
 hundreds of thousands and it's about time
 that we get an upgrade to a new car or something like that.
 So it's this much more proactive kind of relationship
 with ads and advertising that even gives users more agency.
 - Yes, and then the crypto aspect of it is more or less,
 there's a big problem with like self-attested demographics
 and hey, this person will definitely love this ad
 that is solved by identity, zero knowledge proofs
 and then making it so they can actually pay you.
 Cause like, to view an ad, no one's gonna hand you
 like a hundred dollars usually.
 They're gonna hand you to view an ad, you know,
 maybe multiple cents.
 And then like those transactions aren't feasible
 with high fee systems.
 Imagine trying to use a credit card to give someone like 10 cents.
 The answer would be it would all go to the credit card company
 and the issuing bank and the guy would receive nothing.
 Or it would just be denied because I don't know
 if they allow transactions under a dollar,
 if we're being honest.
 And so you get into these systems where like,
 as they start to stack them, we could potentially have
 a really cool future where you're able to make decisions
 for yourself or rather you're able to get something
 that can make decisions for you in your interest.
 - So there's two parts of what you just said
 that are really interesting.
 One is the privacy aspect of it.
 And the other is the sort of compensation
 or monetary aspect of it.
 So like from a privacy perspective, you know,
 right now we live on a web where big corporations kind of
 suck up all of our data and they become these giant honeypots
 and like do they even want to deal with that data anyway?
 It's kind of a liability.
 So what if as a user you got to keep all that information
 to yourself and selectively prove that you are this kind
 of whatever person like on a need to know basis,
 you're sort of not giving up all of your information
 but you can prove aspects about yourself
 that prove that you would be the right target
 for a certain ad.
 - Well, and you can prove like you've never viewed
 the ad before and other like dumb things
 that advertisers are going to want to happen
 if they're going to like pay you as an individual
 to view an ad.
 They don't want to get scammed.
 And so like this is triage against that as well.
 So not only are you preserving your privacy
 on like your preferences and the fact that you want
 to new car and all these other things,
 you're also telling them,
 hey, I'm not ripping you off.
 And so like it does two things at once.
 And these two things are very important
 for the advertisers trusting those systems
 and for the user being able to trust
 how those systems operate.
 'Cause like if I had to go on chain
 and like I have to state my name, my preferences,
 everything about me, 'cause it's possible
 you're going to need to state like income information.
 Like they may want to know like, hey.
 - Yeah, I mean, that's going to depend
 on what kind of car I buy.
 Am I buying a McLaren or am I buying Toyota?
 - Right, Mercedes is going to want to know
 like does this guy make enough money
 for me to advertise to him?
 And so like you don't want to post all that information
 just in plain text on chain for everyone to see,
 you want to be able to like take some federated identity
 that assures them you're a person,
 take some zero knowledge proofs that assure them,
 hey, I'm in an income bracket where you'd want to advertise
 to me, I'm likely to view or I'm likely to purchase it.
 There's a whole bunch of things that I can attest to
 that you don't know exactly what it is.
 You've just written a set of rules that like,
 these are the things in a person I want to advertise to.
 And I say, I am that type of person.
 And then they go, okay, cool, here's the ad.
 - That's so interesting.
 Yeah, so there's the privacy aspect,
 but it actually also works in the favor of the advertiser
 like you're saying where you want to make sure
 that somebody isn't just binging ads,
 watching the same ad over and over
 and getting paid by the advertiser or company.
 - Yeah, you don't want click farms.
 Like click farms are toxic.
 Like right now you have a bunch of people on phones
 viewing ads to essentially steal money from platforms, right?
 You don't want that.
 How do you avoid it?
 Can you prove you're a person?
 Can you prove all these other things about you?
 Like, okay, can you prove you've never seen this ad before?
 All right, we're good.
 Here's the ad, have fun, and here's 30 cents.
 Go view your article now.
 And then I think we should also talk about the third component
 which is whether or not like web services start to embrace
 that you could charge small amounts for viewing content.
 So like instead of an ad service model
 on a thing like YouTube,
 the YouTube people could just be like,
 hey, listen, pay me four cents
 and I'll let you view the video
 or pay me four cents after the first 30 seconds.
 And they could get points where like,
 if they get a million views,
 that's four cents per view, like kind of fire.
 - It sounds like such a small shift.
 Like, oh, just a few cents, whatever, you know, to pay,
 but it is such a radical departure
 from the way things operate now.
 - It probably won't happen with like the C platforms.
 It'll probably be new platforms up and coming
 that realize we can use different forms of monetization
 to go forward.
 They'll start to use them.
 If they catch on, then other people will look at it
 and be like, why aren't we using that?
 That makes more sense.
 And then kind of like roll that forward.
 But yeah, a lot of this is like,
 could it happen maybe?
 Will it happen?
 No one knows.
 - This, while it sounds like it does sound
 like a radical kind of difference
 in the way these business models operate,
 there's actually also a lot of similarity
 because these ad networks are making small micro
 sort of transactions happen on the back end
 of a lot of websites and enabling this monetized,
 open free web.
 And so it's not like something like that
 doesn't already exist.
 It just sort of shifts around a little bit
 who is providing the money to who.
 - Right, and how much is being provided?
 It's likely that any network that was able to get this going,
 it's probably paying a lot more to creators
 because creators can see, hey,
 users are paying you four cents to view it.
 Give me three and a half.
 And like instead of a 50/50 split like YouTube has
 or like a 60/40 or something weird,
 it just becomes a very transparent game they're playing.
 They know exactly how much is there.
 They know exactly how much is on the table.
 And they also don't have risk of getting demonetized
 by advertisers.
 'Cause like, I can't get demonetized
 if the users are paying me directly
 and like users will go seek out the ads
 or their AIs will seek out the ads.
 So they're not next to my content.
 They're just within the ad networks
 where the ad page you get when you open your browser
 and it says, hey, your funds are low.
 You wanna watch some ads and they're like, okay, fine.
 And then it shows you a bunch of cool ads you get hyped
 and then you're like on the internet having fun.
 Matt, would you willingly go out
 and watch ads for compensation?
 Well, I mean, I'm not gonna go to an ad company
 and ask for the ad and go through all that process.
 But if there's a bespoke built-in process for the AI
 that is helping me manage my life and online identity
 to go and do that for me, yes.
 Like if I open it up and I'm just like, man,
 I haven't seen any ads in a while.
 Like I know there's stuff I'm probably just not aware of.
 Tell me what's out there that I should probably be buying.
 And then it brings up an ad.
 It's like, hey, did you see this cool new thing
 that was there?
 I was like, I didn't, thank you, AI.
 And that's by the way, the utility of ads, right?
 Like they're a good thing when served and managed well.
 The first thing that comes to mind when I think of being paid
 to watch ads, I picture the guy from a clockwork orange,
 you know, undergoing the Letavico technique
 with his like eyes being set open or watching a screen
 where he tries to close his eyes and his room beeps at him.
 Watch the ads, watch the ads.
 But that's the more dystopian point is like,
 we're going to get to the point where ads or ad companies
 or places that are trying to get you to watch ads
 so they can monetize the ad buys are just going to sit there
 and be like, we've found ways to detect how people
 and when people are watching ads, and we'll take over
 your 3D devices, and if you look away,
 we're just going to stop the ad and make you look at it, right?
 Versus like, if it's something you want,
 if it's something you need, if it's a movie
 that you'll probably watch, if it's a game you want to play,
 if it's things you'd want, but you're just generally
 not aware of it, that's where like,
 you don't really have to coerce anyone
 to watch ads they want.
 That's not a thing.
 Like I think we're too used to the caustic ads
 to realize that like, there are certain ads that hit
 and you're like, man, awesome.
 Like I just, I was unaware this was there,
 I'm going to go do this right now.
 - Yeah, it sounds like the ad economy can work for you
 and it can do so through the unique combination
 of AI and crypto.
 It's a pretty nice vision of how these two technologies
 can coincide and provide some pretty interesting value.
 - Absolutely, yeah.
 Let's make the cypher funk feature happen.
 - Excellent, all right, Matt, thanks for coming on.
 See ya.
 - So everybody listening out there,
 you can check out Matt's idea,
 as well as all the other people you heard on this podcast,
 if you go to a16zcrypto.com.
 You can see their special feature called AI
 and crypto crossovers.
 Chalk full of good ideas in there,
 let us know what you think when you read it.
 Thanks for listening.
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
