TITLE: The 2025 Crypto Recap & Predictions for 2026
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lMK0zPeYj74
VIDEO_ID: lMK0zPeYj74

TRANSCRIPT:
The year is coming to an end. 2025 has been an interesting year, at least, for the industry.
 Also, for us personally, this loss has happened. What's your notable memories that sort of stuck out?
 I think so many things that work in the past are failing now, and it's totally changing.
 Bitcoin really is a sort of viable alternative to fiat currencies today.
 So, it's this macro-hage, peer-to-peer, decentralized asset that's really succeeding,
 like on a massive way.
 If you look at how banks kind of use the Web3 stack, it's kind of as a back-end upgrade,
 right? It doesn't change the status quo in terms of distribution, ownership, and agency at all.
 I think that it's entirely possible, though, that even self-custody in the coming year
 has become less and less viable due to regulatory constraints.
 Welcome to Epicenter, the show which talks about the technology's project
 and its capable driving decentralization in the blockchain revolution.
 I'm Sibastank Utsur, and I'm here today with my co-hosts Kereke Ernst and Brian Crane.
 So, this is our annual yearly wrap-up for the year, which has been, I guess, pretty consistent
 over the last three years. I don't think we've actually missed some of these recently.
 But yeah, we're going to be chatting about what's happened over the last years,
 with notable moments, notable moments for us, both for the industry, and sharing our hot takes
 for 2026, and where the industry might be heading. Hey, guys, how are you doing?
 Doing good. So, yeah, the year is coming to an end. 2025 has been an interesting year,
 at least for the industry, also for us personally, lots has happened. But maybe before we get started,
 what's here? Perhaps it would be interesting for us to each share notable memories or notable moments
 that sort of stuck out this year. This episode has brought you by NOSIS, building the open internet
 one block at a time. NOSIS was founded in 2015, and it's grown from one of Ethereum's earliest
 projects into a powerful ecosystem for open user-owned finance. NOSIS is also the team behind products
 that had become core to my business and that of so many others, like Safe and CowSwap.
 At the center is NOSIS Chain. It's a low fee layer one with zero downtime in seven years,
 and it's secured by over 300,000 validators. It's the foundation for real-world financial
 applications like NOSIS Pay and Circles. All of this is governed by NOSIS Dow,
 a community-run organization where anyone with a GNO token can vote on updates,
 fun new projects, and even run a validator from home. So, if you're building a Web3,
 or you're just curious about what financial freedom can look like, start exploring at NOSIS.io.
 Flake, do you want to start? There were so many things, right? I actually wrote the
 end of the year's Slack post to our NOSIS Fox this morning. I mentally revisited the entire year,
 and there was so much starting with the buy-bit hack. Then we had crazy price action
 over the summer, then Polymark had completely exploded into the mainstream, and then we went
 out on the balance hack in November. To me, the thing that stood out most was how much
 incumbents are actually pressing into the space, and how much we are at risk of losing our values,
 or what most of us got into the space for originally, but I'm sure we are touched
 upon that in the episode. I think those are all great points. Brian, what do you think?
 Yeah, I agree. I think just overall, it's been a weird year. We've had times of
 special for Bitcoin, where it's kind of just that euphoria is going mainstream, new all-time high.
 So I feel like everyone was expecting, "Okay, this is the beginning of some other epic run,
 and there are things set up, and I remember being at maybe Selini Summit in the summer,
 and people were definitely like 160K, 200K end of the year, and then it didn't happen."
 At the same time, of course, Bitcoin gets down a bit over the year, but I think what has been
 just brutal and sort of devastating for a huge part of crypto has been the entire altcoin
 market, and I think so many things that worked in the past are failing now, and it's totally
 changing. People are maybe still doing some of the things they used to do, and they used to work
 really well, and now it's not working, and they're like, "Dabbit, what are we doing?" I mean,
 the core is one. For example, one way we've also seen that, we've just been shutting down a lot
 of networks, so a lot of networks that we've been running for years and running early on,
 and just not really working anymore. They don't generate any revenues, just the prices are going
 down and down, activity is not there. You realize that in the past, it seemed to be all abundant.
 There was a lot of tokens, and for the team and for airdrop and for validation for staking,
 and for decentralization, and now it's just like, "Let's forget about all of that. Let's just try
 to survive somehow." I think that's probably going to continue. I think a lot of projects,
 and I think this is both applies to companies, but also to protocols within tokens, just
 on a downward trajectory. That becomes very hard to reverse, and so I think we're going to see a
 tremendous... I don't know. On the positive side, you can say, "Okay, it's just spring cleaning,
 and things are going to go away." Obviously, some things will survive, and some things will do very
 well, but it's also going to be very brutal for a lot of people. I think that's been going on this
 year, and I think it will keep going on next year, even if Bitcoin may do very well, and maybe some
 other things may do very well. I think on a macro level, I'm reasonably bullish, but I think that
 spring fire is going to happen, and it's happening, and I feel it's also... I remember many years ago,
 I used to look at my crypto investment portfolio, and I was like 80% hit rate, something like that,
 absurd. Almost everything I invested in was like, "Oh, a lot." This is... Now, it's completely
 different. Now, it starts to look much more like a normal venture startup, with two investment
 things, where you invest in 20 things, and 12 of them fail completely, and five of them kind of
 survive, and hopefully you have like two, one or two, maybe three, that are actually doing well.
 For some reason, like having a token early on, liquidity, it gave people the illusion
 nappings were working, and they kind of were working maybe from an investment perspective,
 if it's older, but then in the end, actually the failure rate might be even higher, right?
 Or probably it's going to be even higher in crypto than in like web 2, and I think that's all coming
 down now. But do you think the anomaly is kind of this period that just started, or do you think
 the anomaly was before? Because if you kind of look at things that flew in crypto over the years,
 there were a lot of things that didn't really have a clear business proposition, right? Where
 kind of like, even if you kind of look at how tokens were designed, typically they were designed
 to kind of evade regulatory capture. So that kind of like, it was clear kind of front and centre,
 this is a governance token only, it gives you no ownership, it gives you no right to kind of profits
 and so on, and still they traded out at billions. So kind of, I would kind of make the game.
 Because everyone assumed that was just temporary pretense, right? And then actually protocol is
 going to keep all the revenues, and then you do buy back and forth some sort of dividend or something,
 right? I understand that that was kind of part of part of the lure and the promise that was kind
 of between the lines. If you look at the crazy valuations that some of these had, even before,
 kind of they had proven product market fit. I would have made the case that that was the anomaly,
 not what we are seeing now. Kind of now kind of products kind of have to work as regular startups
 would without an infinite amount of money. I would argue that previously we kind of had the
 infinite money glitch. Yeah, sure, but like that, I mean, you say it normally, but that was really
 the reality, right? In crypto for like 10 years, right? So I think in the crypto history, it was
 more like the way it was. And I think to some extent, you know, I feel like we're probably
 overshooting a bit on the side of, you know, with revenues and like everything is crap. And I think
 there's going to be some reversion there. But yeah, I think it's just very different.
 Brian, what you're saying really resonates with me, I was listening to an episode of the rollup
 just recently, and the framework ventures guys were on there. And what they were saying, I think,
 is kind of resonates with that. And what I've been hearing throughout the year is that we're
 moving into a space. Now, where previously you could invest in crypto and the kind of Ponzi
 nomics or the Ponzi metrics, or what people were looking for. And certainly that provided a lot of
 that created a lot of returns for investors and for users retail and people got phenomenally rich.
 Now we're sort of moving into the space where crypto protocols are going to be judged on their
 ability to generate revenue, have actual earnings and growth and, you know, sort of real world metrics.
 And I think it's sort of a sign of an industry maturing into something that looks more like
 a traditional, you know, FinTech or any sort of like tech vertical, where businesses that make
 money are successful, return revenue to investors and dividends. And the, so the exuberance that we've
 seen over the last 10 years in crypto is probably or probably sort of most likely sort of coming to
 an enders, at least a slow, a slow decline. So for me this year, like the year started with exuberance
 and it's kind of ending with consolidation. In the beginning of the year, we had the run-up
 to the Trump election, Trump getting into office with meme coins and just like insane
 things that we had never seen before, like, you know, world leaders launching their own meme coins
 and getting phenomenally rich and even more rich from what is most likely, you know, fraud.
 And corruption to the end of the year where, as you mentioned, Brian, like a lot of the
 liquidity that was in alt, DeFi protocols is exiting the market or consolidating into assets,
 like Bitcoin and gold, you know, as you mentioned, like L ones have performed very poorly. So like,
 there's been so many big L ones that came out this year that were like, people were expecting
 would be massive, like, Berit chain, Babylon and Monat. I mean, like, you know, if anybody's bid to
 a Berit chain party or any sort of like conference organized by some of these protocols, like,
 the promises there were huge, but none of them were able to actually deliver on those, at least
 not looking at, you know, if you're looking at the charts with maybe the exception of like,
 of hyper liquid, which falls in that category of projects, I think, you know, demonstrable revenue
 earns and growth. And yeah, to me, it's just like a sign of the enders from maturing.
 It extends to L2s too, though, right? Kind of like, if you look at kind of the huge number of L2s,
 most of them are pretty dead. I mean, kind of like, they see TVL and trading volume and so on.
 Whenever they're, they are liquidity incentives, but kind of as soon as they're gone,
 things dry up and the mercenary capital migrates as well, right?
 I mean, I think if I saw everything, right, like, I mean, the token launches, I saw some chart,
 right, where it was like, the token launches this year, and it was like, the vast majority of them
 were just like, down, right? And I think that's, you know, L1s, L2s, D5 protocols, I think it's
 pretty much across the board. I don't know if there's any, like, category that has really gone
 the other direction on this. And then I think what's interesting, I do find maybe one thing
 that is worth talking about brief is the axelar circle acquisition, because I do think that is
 kind of an interesting one. The axelar project that is reasonably successful, I think, I'm not super
 up to date here on the exact details. I mean, I think they're not the number one. When it comes
 to interoperability, right, you have some, like, layer zero and across, I think, that are maybe
 ahead there, but they're still, like, known and respected. And even from a market cap perspective,
 you know, it was like, I don't know, 200 million FTV is something about that, with basically fully
 liquid. And then, you know, I think circle basically went and they acquired, like, the team, right?
 So I think that's an interesting case, right? Because you basically having half their,
 I don't know all the details, I'm speculating a bit, right? But I'm thinking you basically
 have a situation, right, where you have this public network and you have this team, they've
 been working on this for years. And like, you know, token has been, like, down mostly for a long time.
 And probably the upside is just not there anymore, right? Like the upside, it's like a ton of work
 and, like, very limited upside, very hard to make work. And then you can be like, oh, or we can just,
 like, you know, sell the circle. And there's, like, direct cash payment to the team. And, you know,
 maybe the tokens in the network ends up kind of abandoned. I mean, I know there's some other team
 that's, like, supposedly taking it over and whatnot. But I think that's an interesting one, right?
 Because I think for a long time, people were always valued tokens over equity, right? And token was,
 like, the thing was like, well, that's, you know, you much rather go and work for a project that
 issues a token, you much other whole tokens. If you, I mean, for a long time, we even had
 safts, right? You like invest in projects and you just get tokens, right? Now, and then I think
 that's completely switching as well. Yeah, those token holders, at least in this case. And I would
 suspect we'll see more kind of deals like this in the coming years. And this is where, you know,
 possibly having equity as well as tokens is the better play if you're investing. One of the things
 that as Felica you had written here in the notes was, you know, how we've seen incumbents enter the
 space and do extremely well. So like, Revolut and Stripe. And you mentioned at the top of the show
 that, you know, you were worried that some of our values may be deluded in some of these developments.
 I got to say, like, I use Revolut for like my daily banking here and, you know, the crypto
 integrations are just like absolutely amazing. And when you contrast that to using like any number
 of products to get things on and off chain, whether it's exchanges or products like Menarium, it's
 just like, it just works super well. At least in case of Revolut, you know, I'm sure there's other
 products out there as an industry and certainly like as infrastructure. What are the risks here
 in terms of this new institutional use of crypto, whether that's by financial institutions, you know,
 in the case of like large asset, asset management firms or neo banks, what's the risk here to the
 values and the ethos of crypto, which is like why we all got into this in the first place.
 So I think if I were a bank, I would radically switch to blockchain solutions because they are
 often resilient and much more efficient than kind of what banks currently have. And that kind of,
 that mostly goes to speak about kind of like the stack that banks currently operate on, right?
 Kind of like a lot of it is, I mean, it's no, no one designed it deliberately badly. It's kind of
 just the stack that's grown over the past 70 years, right? And kind of kind of doing away with
 something and kind of re-engineering it, obviously kind of gives you efficiency gains. And I have
 nothing against that and if I were a bank, I would do absolutely the same. But kind of the people who
 got into crypto for the values, so kind of the decentralized ownership, the individual agency
 and so on, we've kind of seen them kind of struggle for adoption for the past 10 plus years.
 And it seems now kind of these web two players come in and they are willing to kind of sell out
 their values for adoption regardless of what that means. So kind of, and then kind of, if you look
 at how banks kind of use the web three stack, it's kind of as a back-end upgrade, right? Kind of
 like it doesn't change the status quo in terms of distribution ownership and agency at all. And
 kind of to me, one of the hallmarks, one of the core values of crypto that kind of always really
 appear to me was this promise that you wouldn't have to perpetually pay rent to the big corporations,
 but that you could actually own part of Rails. And that seems to have gone out of the window,
 even for people who I know used to believe this too. And now it seems a lot of people think the
 only way to kind of get actual users is by turning your back on that in some sense. Maybe that's
 just me, but kind of that's been my sense, kind of also with, I mean, we talked about kind of like
 the demise of many other one blockchains that didn't stop kind of like the arcs and
 tempos and so on of the way from being launched, right? So that's something that sort of promised
 that. But yeah, that's what I meant earlier. I feel like I sort of anticipated this happening
 over the last year or two. Specifically, I feel like with regulatory clarity,
 you know, with in the form of Mika or Genius Act or like, you know, any kind of like regulatory
 framework, it also imposed on protocols a certain number of constraints, specifically in terms of
 compliance, that would, you know, dilute some of those, some of those freedoms, right, that we had
 on chain previously. And I think it's, it kind of feels inevitable, like in, in, in, in sense, where
 at some point, you know, when you have an industry that becomes regulated, that that Wild West
 era that we all were a part of kind of comes to an end. And I think what one apt analogy is
 what happened to music sharing, where in the late 90s and early 2000s, you know, we could all
 download music for free online. And there was like a huge marketplace for like downloading and
 sharing music online. But it totally undermine copyright law and totally undermine. But are
 the artists better off now? Right. I mean, they're not necessarily better off, right? But what we
 did get something, something in the middle where we got the user experience improvements of having
 access to music, immediate access to music and like broad music catalogs accessible at any time,
 but with some remuneration for artists, right? And I think, like, I'm not an expert. I don't know,
 like, to what extent, you know, the long tail of artists before Spotify were better off than they
 are now. I think there's also just like a lot more artists now that are able to publish music.
 But there is like some concentrating factor, I think is what you're alluding to where, you know,
 only the top artists make the most money. And I think probably in crypto, we'll have some,
 some similar outcome where, you know, we benefit from the user experience and kind of like product
 benefits of blockchain, but probably don't get all of the decentralization and self sovereignty
 and all those things that crypto promised early on. And the co-ownership, right? Kind of like,
 if you look at kind of, for instance, my co-founder Martin recently went viral on Twitter for something
 completely crypto unrelated. It was a picture from the Epstein dumps. He wasn't on it. But no,
 I'm Chomsky was on Epine's private jet and kind of, yeah, you and eight million other people saw it.
 And kind of so Martin, who's always been, so kind of, he commented it with, yeah, this hurts a bit.
 So he kind of, he's always been active on Twitter. He's always kind of had a
 decent following and kind of like his, his tweets actually gets kind of get seen by, I don't know,
 10, 15,000 people on average, but kind of like eight million, this was kind of the, he's, yeah,
 he's never had this before. And he actually qualified for the, for the influence program that kind of
 shares Twitter's revenue with you. Do you know how much you get for a million views on Twitter?
 Seven dollars. It's seven dollars. So kind of, so kind of, I told him to not spend it all at once,
 but it's, yeah, so kind of, and if you kind of look at the flipside, how much Twitter actually makes
 from this level of attention and kind of the ads, they are capable of selling because of the
 user generated content. And kind of this, to me, this kind of screams, I'm ripe for disruption,
 kind of like I want a social media layer that is owned by the people who actually create the value.
 I mean, obviously it's, it's, it's dubious how much value was actually created by Martin in this
 instance, but kind of you, you know what I mean, right? And so, and I think the same is true for
 Spotify. So kind of you get, you get fractions of a cent for play on Spotify, right? Kind of like,
 I can pull up the numbers, but it's kind of, it's, it's tiny. Most artists get almost nothing
 from Spotify. So, and in, in, in, and then kind of the questions, where, where do the profits go?
 And is, is there, and to me, kind of the, the, the promise of Web3 was kind of this, this
 intermediation, where kind of you like something online, you click, you kind of thumbs up and then
 kind of like part of the ad revenue that kind of create what was created through you looking at
 things actually accrue to that person, right? But somehow we bypass this and kind of ended up on
 kind of shinier extractive rails for the incumbents. Yeah, it's a good point. I feel this was always
 wanted to use cases that that felt so obvious, right? If you could be like, okay, you can create a social
 network, but then use the tokens to like, you know, really incentivize to keep people who are like
 driving the growth of these platforms, like wouldn't that just be like so powerful and like take off?
 And so yeah, I'm, I'm kind of surprised that like no one has made that work because you don't even
 have to decentralize it, right? You just use the token for incentivization, especially at this point
 where the regulatory scrutiny has kind of gone away a bit. So then, you know, like, because often
 they've had that, that trade off, right? They're like, okay, but if you make it decentralized,
 the user experience gets worse. And now, of course, we have things like, let's say hyper liquid,
 right? That are like, you know, kind of centralized, kind of not, you know, there's some high middle
 ground where they actually able to get a user experience that's, you know, comparable pretty much.
 So yeah, I'm surprised that that has not taken off. And I agree, I feel, I feel there's still
 something here. But of course, the challenge is that network of X is so powerful, right? Like,
 to compete with X or, I mean, even LinkedIn, right? It's kind of a terrible product.
 But it's so ingrained. And you know, recently, I've been like, if I don't use LinkedIn that much,
 but like sometimes, and I would like search in LinkedIn, and now it says like, oh, we don't show
 you any search results anymore, because like, you run out of searches, you need to upgrade.
 So it's kind of interesting. It really seemed to like, you know,
 well, if the search works, I'd be willing to pay for it because Twitter search doesn't work.
 Like, like example, I was just searching, I was searching for this, for this post,
 and I typed Martin Copeland, I couldn't even find Martin's profile.
 Yeah, I find Twitter search to be like, absolutely horrendous.
 This is a place where really we could use regulation, right? Kind of, I mean, you guys know me.
 But kind of, if you look at the market power that kind of Twitter has just because kind of like,
 they have the distribution, this is, it's crazy. And in principle, we could totally force them to
 kind of open source their API so that other people, other companies could sit on top of this. And for
 instance, order results differently for you. And kind of, as is kind of like, you have, you have
 two options, one being kind of see all the TikTok like videos you can't, you can't really watch,
 but you also can't look away from on the, on the for your page. And then the following one,
 where you see every little update from everyone that kind of, I mean, there should be some sort
 of curation, there should be some sort of way of kind of letting you choose how to curate these
 results. And in principle, I think regulatory bodies could force social networks to open source
 the, the, these, these API so that other people could sit on top of them. But somehow, this is
 something that's not done, right? Yeah. So Brian, I back in, back in, I think it was, when I was
 April, when we were in Dubai for, for a staking summit, we did an episode with, with Mirco and Toby.
 And we talked about the staking ecosystem. And one of the interesting things there was,
 you know, discussing how staking was consolidating on practically all metrics. So I wonder, you know,
 like several months from away from that, if you think that that has actually materialized. And if,
 if that consolidation in this, the staking ecosystem is actually happening.
 So I think it is happening. It's, but I think it's probably still a summary on the road, right?
 I mean, I think it still has a long way to go. But you know, I think at the core, what, what is
 going on? First of all, you know, in distribution, it's just crucial, right? Like, if you own the
 distribution, then you have kind of like, so much leverage. And when it comes to the revenues that,
 like staking generate, those will just really accrue to those who own the distribution. So,
 what is that? That's like, you know, companies like Coinbase, right, or Revolut, or maybe ETF
 issuers or centralized exchanges, you know, I mean, potentially some wallets, right? But
 basically, you know, the bigger you are, the more distribution you have, like the better you can
 monetize this. And if you don't have the distribution, then you are going to have to basically sell or
 be a service provider to those who do have distribution. And then you're going to be competing with,
 you know, 10 others that are also trying to sell to those. And then you just don't have a ton of
 leverage, right? So the pride you're going to be, you know, you have not a lot of pricing power.
 So I think that is something that certainly applies to staking. But I think it applies to
 probably quite a lot of other areas as well in crypto. And yeah, so I do think that, you know,
 what we see today, I don't know what the answer for this is. But like, what if you take all of the
 profits that are being generated in crypto, how much of that accrues the centralized exchanges
 is going to be very large, I think of that, how much accrues to finance is so large. Like, I would
 not be surprised. Or I mean, I might guess would be that probably more than half of like all of
 the profits in crypto are like, finance, you know, I mean, of course, there's, well, there's
 different, there's also the profits from like, you know, coin appreciation, right? Like, so those,
 every exclude that, I mean, I think it's going to be a gigantic percentage, right? It's going to be
 some of those centralized players. And so I think that's just a very, I think it's going to be
 strong consolidation, right, where a lot of it is going to go there. Of course, you have some new
 players there, you know, the Robin Hoods, the Revolutes, and they have a tremendous power as well. So I
 think you're going to see those and integrate as well. I think what we also seeing, you know, I did
 the podcast with Gracie from Bitgett yesterday, a recorded one. And I think what Bigger is doing,
 which is again, very typical for I think a lot of exchanges doing that, you know, there are one
 that kind of integrating DeFi, right? So you kind of say like, okay, look, you have your centralized,
 you change your interface, and you know, you can do a lot of things there. And including maybe we
 kind of package some of the, you know, DeFi access into that as well. So like, you never have to leave.
 I mean, Coinbase did something with more for as well, right? So I think that so that's one thing.
 And then they're, of course, bringing like stocks and commodities in and be this kind of universal
 trading platform. And that's super powerful, right? I think, and so I think that kind of
 consolidation, yeah, it's very, very much happening. And I think what would continue to happen.
 Are there other parts of the industry that we see consolidating over the next, you know,
 three to three to five years, possibly venture capital, right? I mean, a lot of the rounds are
 continuing to be sort of taking up by large BC funds. It's becoming harder and harder for
 smaller funds to raise. There have been like fewer fund launches in the last year. I think,
 I mean, I don't have actual metrics here, but just, I think I've seen some metrics where like,
 have been like fewer fund raises than, than in previous years, and certainly like VCs are
 funding a harder, harder to raise. You know, this consolidation happening like across all
 the results of the industry. Yeah, the VCs, I don't know. I don't think VCs really like naturally
 suited for like consolidation. I think there you just have a shrinking of the industry, right?
 Like basically returns on there. So, you know, like, what does it mean? I think that the more
 established funds, mostly even them, right? Raising smaller funds, right? So I think,
 even the very, very big ones, I think of shrunken and then the small ones, a lot of them just cannot
 raise. Yeah, but I think consolidation will also apply to all of this, you know, data,
 analytics, block explorers, like all of these kind of services and layers that people like,
 this whole like middle layer, I think will there will be a lot of consolidation there.
 I fear you're right. If Web3 in some sense kind of becomes a speculative asset only,
 that's powered by centralized exchanges. What remains? There was a nice article, I think,
 from Nick Carter recently, where, you know, he was like, how is this crypto thing doing? And,
 well, first of all, you know, Bitcoin really is a sort of viable alternative to fiat currencies
 today, right? So I just like macro hedge, P2P, decentralized, like asset, like, it's really
 succeeding, like on a massive way. Now, okay, maybe we can catch on the quantum thing later,
 so there's some threats. It may end up failing, like it's possible, right? It's not guaranteed,
 it's going to win. But today, like, I think there's sort of default, like, if nothing goes wrong,
 it is going to be there, right? It's going to be like a major factor in as a macro asset.
 And that's very powerful, I think. So there's that, you know, I think we have like stable coins,
 payments, right? Like, it's great, right? Like, actually, it has a lot of benefits. You know,
 I think you have access to financial products, like more financial products, easier, more efficient,
 right? You have may have some kind of back end efficiency gain for like, I mean, you said before,
 right? If you're a bank, you build on blockchain, right? Which, you know, I think to some extent,
 it's definitely going to happen and happening. So I think there are a lot of real improvements
 and real value here, you know, maybe some aspects like regionally that attracted some of us, like,
 you know, self custody, right? And the idea of having like, P2P, you know, no intermediaries and
 having peer to peer transactions and maybe having privacy on chain privacy, like those all, you know,
 not doing super hot right now and questionable if they'll end up sort of being delivered at all.
 But even, even then, self custody is an option, right? Like, you can do it. And a lot of, so that's
 already powerful. So I think if you zoom out, it doesn't look so bad, even, you know, but of course,
 trading is by far the main use case. And so I think the centrality changes just are extremely
 well positioned there. Entirely possible, though, that even self custody in the coming year is
 becomes less and less viable due to regulatory constraints. So my fear, like, I think in the next,
 like, three to five years is that possibly in Europe, self custody becomes mostly untenable due
 to regulatory constraints, which would prohibit people from with that have self custody assets
 from interacting with any centralized exchanges, or at least being like significantly hindered in
 doing so. How do you think this would play out? Because kind of, to me, it seems like
 the genie is out of the bottle. And kind of, you can't really put it back in. And kind of,
 drafting on trying to enforce regulation that is de facto unenforceable just makes you look bad
 as a regulator slash an enforcement agency, you know?
 And in the EU, we've already, there's already been some talk about, like, having a much higher
 increased scrutiny on self custody wallets, like unhosted wallets. Like, this is part of the EU
 regulatory narrative. And I don't think it's impossible for regulation to impose much higher
 scrutiny on self-hosted wallets, such as like, you know, like source of funds, like traceability,
 like when those assets were purchased, et cetera. And if they're not, then it's like nearly impossible,
 or like, impossible to interact with any regulated exchange.
 But I mean, this is already the case, right? Kind of like, if you kind of want to bring
 funds on to an exchange, they already check kind of what the funds have been through in the past.
 And I mean, this is, this doesn't really seem to impede usage a lot, no?
 I mean, it's like an extra, it's like an extra burden on people who have on, you know,
 quote unquote unhosted wallets. I just think it's not past the EU regulatory apparatus to
 impose even more stricter constraints on those types of wallets in the future.
 So let's talk about the quantum threat. So we recently did this episode on the quantum threat to
 Bitcoin and also crypto as a whole. And we were discussing before the show that one of the
 interesting developments in the last, say, like six months is that, you know, before this wasn't
 discussed at all, or it was kind of like dismissed as something that was going to happen so far in
 the future that we shouldn't actually be worried about it. But now it seems like that conversation
 is happening in a more serious and significant way. And I know Brian, you're tracking this pretty
 closely. What's your, yeah, what the risks are here in particular for Bitcoin? Like, what's the
 situation look like? And what can we, what do you think is going to happen in the next few years
 with regards to quantum and crypto? Yeah, I mean, I have a lot. It's been like that
 much time on it. Actually, John Lillidge that we did a podcast with his, I spoke with him at FCC
 in some length about it. And he's like super focused on that. And then, you know, I was talking
 to him and I was like, hmm. And so I spent a bit of time on it. I mean, I think for anyone who is
 interested in it, I think Nick Carter wrote a really good article where recently about the risk for
 Bitcoin. So I recommend checking that out. But on a high level, right, what's the, what's the
 issue, right? It's a, it's a simple issue, right? Like basically in Bitcoin, when crypto, you basically
 have a public key and a private key. And then if you want to create a transaction, you, you sign
 a message with the private key. And someone else can verify that that message was probably written
 by this private key, right? I was signed by this private key. But there could be other private
 keys, maybe that could also sign a message that would sort of verify. It's just that statistically
 speaking, it's like so implausible that you'll ever find it that you can basically say that risk
 is zero. And so then, you know, you kind of as long as you have your private key, you're safe.
 But I think with quantum, the thing is that what people expect is that they will start to become
 possible to sort of crack a brute force, right? And create a transaction that will spend the coins
 from, from some address you have, and without having the private key. So then somebody could just
 steal the bitcoins. Now, I think there are address types or, you know, some cryptographic signing
 types, even supported in Bitcoin that would not have that vulnerability. So, you know, just like
 some upgrade path, maybe possible, right? Where you say, like, hey, let's switch, always all switch
 to that. And then people may have to move over their coins if they're on addresses that are still
 exposed. But the problem, of course, is first of all, it's a huge upgrade. And Bitcoin has been
 extremely resistant to any kind of upgrades. I mean, some, some people may remember the block size
 debate, which was a huge debate took forever. It was extremely hostile. A lot of people
 left the industry, left with Bitcoin, even as a part of it, you know, to basically increase the
 block size from one to two megabytes, which was a very, very minor change, as far as miners, you can
 think of a change. And, but the other thing is what do you do with, like, let's say Satoshi's coins,
 right? Because if somebody now steals, even if you, you know, maybe Sebastian moves to a quantum
 safe address, you know, if someone now steals, I think the estimates, like 1.7 million Bitcoin,
 they're kind of like lost or like haven't moved forever. So someone sees that and then dumps it all.
 That's like, you know, it's super massive disaster. Totally wipe out the Bitcoin price and maybe not
 go to zero, but go like, you know, I don't know how low it would go. It would go very, very low,
 probably. It's a big threat in sort of the traditional world. People are very aware of that, right?
 And there's, you know, I think any bank will have some quantum group that's like preparing for it.
 And, you know, they will make these migrations and changes. But that's like way easier to do in a
 central system than in a decentralized system. In a decentralized system, you know, if you have
 some governance, if you have some kind of coordination, then again, it should be possible to make
 some upgrades now still probably harder and still some risks. But of course, Bitcoin is so resistant
 to any kind of change and really has no governance process. It's going to be way harder for Bitcoin
 than even Ethereum, for example, right? Ethereum is going to have an easier time adapting to that
 in Bitcoin. So it's a very big threat. And it's interesting that's now kind of now, of course,
 the big question is the timeline here. How long is it going to take? Partino, I think the
 median estimate is something like early, you know, maybe 10 years from now. But first of all,
 making these changes and upgrades to Bitcoin is also probably going to take many years. And
 second of all, you may have some breakthroughs and they could come much earlier. And you also
 have an incentive if you are now developing the latest quantum computer. You may want to keep that
 as a secret, right? And only venue there, then you announce it and then you have a huge headstart.
 So yeah, there's a lot of risks there. And when it comes, you know, it may be too late.
 So it's a very hard problem, I think, for Bitcoin to tackle. And I think it's a problem for,
 I mean, I remember talking with John and he was also very unhappy with Ethereum. And you know,
 I think he also fought so long. I was making mistakes that would make it hard after it's
 to adapt. So I think he does think there are problems, and I'm not as familiar with the details
 here, but that, you know, it's real problems for other blockchains as well. But I think Bitcoin,
 by far, has the biggest problem here. Yeah, one of the things I thought interesting about,
 yeah, that's a great recap. But one of the things I thought was interesting about next article is
 the Bitcoin community essentially has a choice to make, which is essentially, you know, make the
 upgrade that would render Satoshi's coins unspendable, you know, and therefore threaten the neutrality
 of Bitcoin and tank the price, or do nothing and wait for the content threat to come. You know,
 Satoshi's coins get the private keys get deciphered and those coins are sold and that tanks the price.
 So it's they're sort of stuck between a rock and a heart. I mean, I think if you ask me, you know,
 what would be the best thing is like you take the you basically give some timeline of, I don't know,
 two years, you say, okay, in these two years, you have to move to some address that's like,
 you know, quantum resistant, anything that does not move basically goes into like a security budget.
 And now Bitcoin has like, you know, 2% annual, like inflation for the next, I mean, many, many
 years, right? Or like, you could basically the whole thing of like the security in the block
 of what's like dropping off so much, you can kind of undo that, which I think, you know,
 that's that's not a very interesting popular matter. Yeah, exactly. So kind of, I think this
 is something that might fly in the Ethereum space kind of like kind of like the worst I could
 kind of the furthest I can kind of see this happen in the Bitcoin spaces that people kind of say,
 okay, whoever doesn't move their coins within two years or so kind of they just get burned or
 kind of like they no longer get it. I mean, but I'm kind of actually kind of putting governance
 on top of all of this. So kind of like inflation. Yeah, this is like, this you still have the 21
 million limit, right? Like, right, right. Yeah, but yeah, is it likely to happen? Like,
 it's hard to imagine it right now, right? Right now, I mean, but for the most likely scenario seems
 to be that nothing happens, right? That like no real change comes. But then I don't, I don't
 think that's so maybe I'm just kind of like more optimistic than you here. So I think kind of like
 the the block size was it also ultimately didn't matter that much, right? Kind of like it was was
 a question about a kind of transaction fees kind of like when it when it came down to it and kind of
 like whether blocks still propagate fast enough and so on. But if there's an existential threat,
 kind of as for instance, posed by the by the quantum collapse, I do actually think that the
 ecosystem would be rational enough to coordinate around that. And I mean, if you kind of when it
 comes down to it, kind of you have governance by by hard folk, right? And kind of you could say,
 okay, look kind of like real hard folk this and everyone who thinks this is Bitcoin and this is
 now Bitcoin classic and kind of Bitcoin classic will go to zero eventually. I think they wouldn't
 sink for dogmatic reasons alone. I know and like a lot of Bitcoiners. So maybe I'm biased here.
 But I think this this scenario the describing of like guys, probably the most likely scenario
 where they're you know, there's part of the Bitcoin ecosystem that decides to kind of move
 forward with the solution. And there is one and like the size of that part of the ecosystem
 that would fork off to become the classic, right, is is questionable. But most likely,
 like it would be contentious. Yeah, but like the hard forks, I mean, there hasn't been a
 hard fork for like almost ever, right? I think the first one's the other the changes wolf soft forks
 later. So even that those are like, sure, sure. I mean, some people made hard for made, but that
 they were not Bitcoin, right? Like Bitcoin itself has not done that. I mean, I think one of the
 things we haven't really talked about here is like, you know, recent, the recent kind of narratives
 around Zcash. And I feel like this is this is a it's a it's a great use case for Zcash because
 Zcash has a lot of the properties of Bitcoin, I think has the respect of a lot of Bitcoiners as a,
 you know, first primitives, highly decentralized, highly aligned asset that also is private and
 happens to be quantum resistant, as far as I understand. Yeah, for sure. So everybody could
 like it could be coins into Zcash, you know, like, yeah, just yeah, something like Zcash coin,
 something like Zcash could be very well positioned there, I agree. Or like, of course, Bitcoin,
 in the end, someone will do the Bitcoin hard fork, right, to say like, okay, let's, you know, freeze
 the old coins and, you know, my great dad, but the challenge is just going to be, you know, you may
 end up with two or three or different views on it. And then you have like different forks and which
 one has the legitimacy, right, which one's actually Bitcoin, right, does that's the challenge, right?
 And especially now you have to be calling ETFs and rebel, then like a lot of these places that
 they will have to make the decision for the users. And that is just holding all that like that.
 Yeah, but the one that goes for euro is not Bitcoin, right? The one that goes,
 the revolution can just decide to like keep all of them. And then like, they're going to get the
 they're going to get all the assets on Ford. No, no, I don't agree with you because like
 someone comes in and they say like, I buy Bitcoin, right? They're going to give them, you know,
 they're going to have to say this is Bitcoin, right? This is that they're not going to be like,
 Oh, listen, right. They can also offer big, I mean, of course, they can offer Bitcoin, but they can
 also offer Bitcoin classic and whoever wants to, I mean, they're going to, they're going to make
 money off of this anyway, right? So like, just like exchanges listed Ethereum and Ethereum classic
 and continue to listed here in classic. But yeah, I guess, I guess you're what you're saying is
 the exchanges will have to decide which, which is like the real Bitcoin. I mean,
 think about this throughout the episode, I think my my hot take is that despite all of this consolidation
 and apparent shift away from Ponzinamix and the industry moving towards investing and
 certainly, you know, backing projects that demonstrate real world metrics such as revenue and earnings,
 we are probably going to continue to see rallies, possibly not at the, you know, the sort that
 we've seen up up until now, like the mean form rally, et cetera. But like, where those rallies
 will continue to happen on a smaller scale and people will continue to, you know, gamble on things
 like meme coins and other narrative driven ideas and, you know, retail investors will continue to
 get burned on those as they have in the past. I mean, retail investors tend to get burned
 whatever they do, right? I'll impersonate Warren Buffett here. I think can you do his voice?
 No, unfortunately, I can't, but you maybe we can put this in with AI. I think real world
 assets are going to be other age. So I think kind of like we had, we now kind of, the one thing that
 has arguably kind of found real world traction is staples, kind of non speculative real world
 traction staples. So I think real world assets is next up. And kind of, we see a lot of the
 infrastructure. And I expect that 2026 will be our WA's all the way. Yeah, I agree. I think
 perp's trading is seems like very powerful. And so I think perp's on stocks and perp,
 I think that thing is going to keep exploding. And I think that's, that's going to be very
 powerful to bring a lot of money in users into crypto. And so overall, I think 2026 is going to be
 a better year, right in 2035. I don't think it's going to be some like long bear market from here.
 But I think it's going to just going to be still a lot of struggle for a lot of pockets of crypto.
 All right. Well, we'll have to see if those predictions pan out. But to all of you listening,
 thanks for tuning in and certainly for tuning in to epicenter throughout 2025.
 And hope you'll stick around for 2026 as the industry continues to evolve in all sorts of
 interesting ways and certainly happy holidays and happy new year to everyone.
