TITLE: Trump's Tech Czar on Crypto and American Innovation
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Dt8xhY6KdY
VIDEO_ID: 2Dt8xhY6KdY

TRANSCRIPT:
Basically, the whole crypto industry was in the process of moving offshore.
 And America was being deprived of this industry of the future.
 I think the country had a significant victory with the president signing the stable coin
 built into law.
 I think that the positive consequences of that law have been even bigger than we thought.
 The legislation was declared dead many times.
 I think that we will get the clarity act done.
 This will provide the regulatory framework for all the other tokens besides stable coins.
 There are a lot of twists and turns to legislative process.
 It's definitely true that you don't want to see the sausage getting made.
 Welcome to Web3 with A16Z Crypto!
 Today's episode is a special crossover with the A16Z podcast, featuring David Sachs, the
 Trump administration's AI and crypto czar.
 In conversation with A16Z co-founders Mark Andreessen and Ben Horowitz and general partner
 Eric Torrenberg.
 They dig into how the US is approaching AI and crypto policy, the fight over open-source
 software, and what's at stake in the global tech race with China?
 Be sure to follow and subscribe to the A16Z podcast for more conversations like this one.
 David, welcome to the A16Z podcast.
 Thanks for joining.
 Yeah, good to be here.
 So David, you're the AI and crypto czar.
 Why don't you first talk about why it makes sense to have those as a portfolio?
 What do they have to do with each other?
 And then I'll have you lay out what's the Trump plan on those two categories and how
 we're doing?
 Well, there are two technologies that I guess are relatively new.
 And so there's a lot of fear of them.
 And I think people will notice that much about them.
 They don't really know what to make of them.
 I think that from a policy standpoint, and we can talk about the similarities and differences,
 the approaches are a little different.
 I think with crypto, the main thing that's needed is regulatory certainty.
 All the entrepreneurs I've talked to over the years, they all say the same thing, which
 is just tell us what the rules are.
 We're happy to comply, but people watching won't tell us what they are.
 And in fact, during the Biden years, you had an SEC chairman who took an approach, which
 I guess has been called regulation through enforcement, which basically means you just
 get prosecuted.
 I'll tell you what the rules are.
 You just basically get indicted, and then everyone else is supposed to divine what the
 rules are as you get prosecuted and fined and imprisoned.
 So that was the approach for several years, and as a result of that, basically the whole
 crypto industry was in the process of moving offshore, and America I think was being deprived
 of this industry of the future.
 And so President Trump, during his campaign and last year, he gave a now famous speech
 in Nashville, in which he declared that he would make the United States a crypto capital
 of the planet, and that he would fire a gensler.
 That was like the big applause line.
 I think he's talking about how surprised he was at what a big ovation he got at that.
 So he said it again, and the crowd erupted again.
 But in any event, he promised basically to provide this clarity so that the industry
 would understand what the rules are, be able to comply, in turn, that should provide greater
 protection for consumers and businesses, everyone is part of the ecosystem, and it makes America
 more competitive.
 So I think that's sort of the mandate on crypto is, in a way, its pro-regulation is basically
 we want to put in place, regulations in a way, AI is kind of the opposite, where I think
 the Biden administration was too heavy handed, they were starting to really regulate this
 area without even understanding what it was, they weren't, no one had really taken the
 time to understand how AI was even being used, what the real dangers were, there was this
 intense fear mongering.
 And as a result of that, the approach to the Biden administration was, they were in the
 process of implementing very heavy handed regulations on both the software and hardware
 side, and we couldn't drill into that.
 I think that with the term administration, the approach has been that we want the United
 States to win the AI race, it's a global competition.
 Sometimes we mention the fact that China is probably our main competitor in this area,
 they're the only other countries that has the technological capability, the talent, the
 know how, the expertise to be in this area, we want to make sure the United States wins.
 And of course, in the US, it's not really the government that's responsible for innovation,
 it's the private sector.
 So that means that our companies have to win.
 And if you're imposing all sorts of crazy burdensome regulation on them, then that's
 going to hurt, not help.
 So the president gave a, I think, very important AI policy speech a couple of months ago on
 July 23rd, where he declared in no uncertain terms that we had to win the AI race.
 And he laid out several pillars on how we do that, it was pro innovation, pro infrastructure,
 which also means pro energy and pro export.
 And we can drill into all those things if you want, but that was sort of the high line.
 And so I think that, again, with AI, the idea is kind of like, how do we unleash innovation?
 And I think with crypto, it's been more about how we create regulatory certainty.
 But in terms of my role, like why am I doing both, I mean, I think the common denominator
 is just, again, these are new technologies, they're both, obviously, come from the tech
 industry, which has a very different culture than Washington does.
 And I kind of see as my role to help be a bridge between what's happening in Silicon
 Valley and what's happening in Washington and helping Washington understand not just the
 policy that's needed or the innovation that's happening, but also kind of culturally, what
 makes the tech industry different and special and how that needs to be protected from government
 doing something excessively heavy handed.
 So David, we're going to talk a lot about AI today, but just on crypto, I've had this
 interesting experience this year kind of after the election, people adjusted to the change
 of government.
 And I've had this discussion with a number of people who, let's say in politics who were
 previously anti crypto who have been trying to figure out how to kind of get to a more
 sensible position.
 And then also actually people in the financial services industry who kind of followed it
 from a distance and maybe participated in the various debugging things without really
 understanding what was happening.
 But the common denominator has been, they're like, Mark, I didn't really understand how
 bad it was.
 I basically thought you guys in tech were basically just whining a lot.
 And pleading is a special interest and kind of doing the normal thing.
 And I figured the horror stories were kind of made up of people getting prosecuted and
 entrepreneurs getting their houses rated by the FBI and the whole panoply of things that
 happened.
 And I now in retrospect, now that I go back and look, I'm like, oh my God, this was actually
 much worse than I thought.
 Do you have that experience?
 And as you're in there and kind of as you now have like a complete, do you have everything
 that happens?
 Do you think people understand actually how bad it was?
 I mean, I think it's a great point.
 I mean, I didn't really know either.
 You kind of heard generally, I mean, we knew that there was debanking going on.
 And by the way, it wasn't just crypto companies that were being debunked, but their founders
 were being debunked personally.
 So if you were the founder of a crypto company, you couldn't open a bank account.
 I mean, that's a huge problem.
 It's like, how do you transact?
 How do you make payments?
 How do you pay people?
 I mean, it basically deprives you of the livelihood.
 It's a very extreme form of censorship.
 So that was definitely happening.
 And then of course, you have all the prosecutions that the SEC was behind.
 So yeah, it was really bad.
 I remember back in, I think it was in March, we had a crypto summit at the White House.
 And one of the attendees said that, you know, a year ago, I would have thought it was more
 likely that I'd be in jail than that I'd be at the White House.
 And so it was, you know, it was a really big milestone for the industry.
 They'd never ever received any kind of recognition like that.
 The idea that this was even a industry that you would do an event at the White House.
 I mean, at a minimum, I think crypto is seen as very day, class A, but in any event, yeah,
 no, it's been a huge shift.
 I mean, we basically have stopped that and it was very unfair because again, these founders
 wanted to comply with the rules, but they weren't told what they were.
 And that was all part of a deliberate strategy, I think, to drive crypto offshore.
 One of the things that is very different between crypto and AI that we've noticed is that on
 the crypto front, everybody just wanted rules and the industry was relatively unified.
 Whereas in AI, we've seen very like interesting kind of calls coming from inside the house
 with certain companies really going for regulatory capture, you know, people who have early leads
 saying, let's cut off all new companies from developing AI and so forth.
 What do you make of that and where do you think that's going?
 I think it's a very big problem.
 I actually recently criticized one of our AI model companies for engaging in a regulatory
 capture strategy.
 Yes.
 Very fair.
 It is very fair.
 And actually, you know, of course, they denied it.
 And then should I tell the story, I mean, yes, really do you get vindicated on X so thoroughly
 and completely as I did on this because after this company was basically anthropic, after
 they denied it, there was what basically happened is that Jack Clark, who's a co-founder and
 had a policy for anthropic, gave a speech at a conference where he said that he compared
 fear of AI to a child, you know, seeing monsters in the dark or thinking there were monsters
 in the dark.
 But then you turn the lights on and the monsters are there.
 I thought that was such a ridiculous analogy.
 I mean, it's basically virile, I mean, it's so childish to be almost self indicting because
 you're basically emitting the fear is made up, not real in any event.
 So I said, well, this is like fear mongering and part of the regulatory capture strategy.
 And of course, they denied it.
 But then a lawyer who was in the crowd at his speech said, well, yeah, but Jack's not
 telling you what he said during the Q and A, which he basically admitted that everything
 that anthropic was doing was, you know, with with like things like SB 53, which is supposedly
 just implementing transparency.
 He said, no, that's all that he admitted that was just a stepping stone to their real goal,
 which was to get an approval system of pre approvals in Washington before you can release
 new models.
 And he admitted as part of the Q and A that making people very afraid was part of their
 strategy.
 And just as much of a smoking gun as you could ever get in a spat on X.
 But the reason why I think that that approach is so damaging is that the thing that's really
 made, I think, Silicon Valley special over the past several decades is permissionless
 innovation.
 Right?
 It's the two guys in a garage can just pursue their idea, you know, maybe they raise some
 capital from angels or VC for basically people who are willing to lose all of their money.
 And these are people who, you know, are young founders.
 They could also be, you know, it could be the drop out, the future dropout in the dorm
 room.
 And they're able to pursue their idea.
 And, and the only reason that I think has happened in Silicon Valley, whereas you look
 at in, you know, industries like, I don't know, like pharma or, you know, healthcare
 or defense or banking or these highly regulated industries where you just don't see a lot
 of startups is because they're all heavily regulated, which means you have to go to Washington
 to get permission to do things.
 And the thing I've seen in Washington is just that, you know, the approvals get set up for
 reasons, but those reasons very quickly stop mattering.
 And it just matters like how good your government affairs team is at navigating through the
 bureaucracy and figuring out how to get those approvals.
 And it's not something that your typical startup founders are going to be good at.
 It's something that big companies get good at because they've got the resources and that's
 exactly what regulatory capture means.
 So the whole basis of Silicon Valley success, the reason why it's really the crown jewel
 of the American economy and the envy of the rest of the world.
 We see all these attempts by all these other countries to create their own Silicon Valley.
 The reason that's the case is because of permissionless innovation.
 And what is being contemplated and discussed and implemented with respect to AI is an approval
 system for both software and hardware.
 And this is not theoretical, this has already been happening.
 On the hardware side, one of the last things that the Biden administration did, the last
 week, the Biden administration, was impose the so-called Biden diffusion rule, which
 requires that every sale of a GPU on Earth be licensed by the government, which is to
 say pre-approved, unless it fits into some category of exception, basically the overall
 idea is that compute is now going to be a licensed and pre-approved category.
 We rescinded that.
 And then on the software side, like I said, the goal very clearly is to start with these
 reporting requirements to the government, to the states, and then where that ramps up
 to is you have to go to Washington to get permission before you release a new model.
 And you know, this would drastically slow down innovation and make America less competitive.
 I mean, these approvals can take months, they can take years when a new chip is released
 every year and we have licenses that have been sitting in the hopper for two years.
 I mean, the requests are obsolete by the time they finally get approved.
 And that would be even more true with models where the cycle time is like three or four
 months for a new model, I mean, you know, and what exactly is the bureaucracy in Washington
 going to know about this technology that there are going to be in a good position to approve
 at any event.
 But this is what is being contemplated right now and I think it would be a disaster for
 Silicon Valley, but also and for innovation, but therefore for American competitiveness.
 And I think we will lose the AI race to countries like China if this is the set of rules that
 we have.
 Yeah.
 One of the really diabolical things about their argument is if they really believe there was
 a monster, then why are they buying GPUs like at a rate faster than anybody.
 And then the other thing that we know from being in the industry is their reputation
 is they have the literally the worst security practices in the entire industry with respect
 to their own code.
 So if you were building this monster, the last thing you'd want to do is like leave
 a bunch of holes around for people to hack it.
 So they don't believe anything they're saying.
 It's a guy like completely made up to try and maintain their lead by this.
 Well, I think there is, I think it's a heady drug to basically say that, you know, we're
 creating this, you know, new super intelligence that is going to could destroy humanity.
 But we're the only ones who are virtuous enough, sure that this is done correctly, right?
 And I think that, you know, it's a good recruiting tool.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Yes.
 I think that's right.
 But yeah, but I think that is definitely, you know, I think of all the companies that
 particular one has been the most aggressive in terms of the regulatory capture and pushing
 these for these regulations.
 And just, I mean, let's just bring it up a level just enough to be about them.
 There's now something like 1200 bills going through state legislatures right now to regulate
 AI, 25% of them are in the top four blue states, which are California, New York, Colorado,
 and Illinois.
 Over 100 measures have already passed.
 I think three of them just got signed in the last month in California alone.
 Yeah.
 I'll tell you, just let me tell you what Colorado is actually Colorado, Illinois and California
 have all done some version of a thing called algorithmic discrimination, which I think
 is it's really troubling where it's headed.
 What this concept means is that if the model produces an output that has a disparate impact
 on a protected group, then that is algorithmic discrimination.
 And the list of protected groups is very long.
 It's more than just the usual ones.
 So for example, in Colorado, they've defined people who may not have English language proficiency
 as a protected group.
 So I guess if the model is something bad about illegal aliens and that would basically violate
 the law, I don't know exactly how a model companies are even supposed to comply with
 this rule.
 I mean, presumably discrimination is already illegal.
 So if you're a business and you violate the civil rights laws and you engage in discrimination,
 you're already liable for that.
 There's no reason if you happen to make that mistake and you use any kind of tool in the
 process of doing it, we don't really need to go after the tool developer because we can
 already go after the business that's made that decision.
 But the whole purpose of these laws is to get at the tool.
 They're making not just the business that is using AI liable, they're making the tool
 developer liable.
 And I don't even know how the tool developer is supposed to anticipate this because how
 do you know all the ways that your tool is going to be used?
 How do you know that this output, especially if the output is 100% true and accurate and
 the model is just doing its job, then how are you supposed to know that that output was
 used as part of a decision that had a disparate impact?
 Nevertheless, you're liable.
 And the only way that I can see for model developers to even attempt to comply with this
 is to build a DEI layer into their models that tries to anticipate could this answer
 of a disparate impact?
 If it does, we either can't give you the answer, we have to sanitize or distort the answer.
 And you just take this to its launch of inclusion and we're back to Woke AI, which by the way
 was a major objective of the Biden administration, that Biden executive order on AI that we rescinded
 as part of the Trump administration had something like 20 pages of DEI language in it.
 They were very much trying to promote DEI values, they call it in models.
 And then we saw what the result of that was, you know, I was, you know, we saw the whole
 Black George Washington thing where history was being rewritten in real time because somebody
 built, you know, a DEI layer into the model.
 And, you know, I almost feel like the term Woke AI is insufficient to explain what's going
 on because it somehow trivializes it.
 I mean, what we're really talking about is Orwellian AI, you know, we're talking about
 AI that lies to you, that distorts an answer that rewrites history in real time to serve
 a current political agenda of the people who are in power.
 I mean, it's very Orwellian and we were definitely on that path before President Trump's election.
 It was part of the Biden EO, we saw it happen, you know, in the release of that first Gemini
 model that was not an accident that, you know, those distorted outputs came from somewhere.
 So it was, you know, to me, this is the biggest risk of AI actually is it's not described
 by James Cameron, it was described by George Orwell, you know, in my view, it's not the
 Terminator, it's 1984 that, you know, that as AI eats the Internet and becomes the main
 way that we interact and get our information online, that it'll be used by the people in
 power to control the information we receive, that it'll contain an ideological bias that
 essentially it'll censor us, all that trust and safety apparatus that was created for
 social media will be ported over to this new world of AI.
 Mark, I know that you've spoken about this quite a bit, I think you're absolutely right
 about that.
 And then on top of that, you've got the surveillance issues where, you know, AI is going to know
 everything about you, it's going to be your kind of personal assistant.
 And so it's kind of the perfect tool for the government to monitor and control you.
 And to me, that is by far the biggest risk of AI.
 And that's the thing we should be working towards preventing.
 And the problem is a lot of these regulations that are being whipped up by these fear-mongering
 techniques, they're actually empowering the government to engage in this type of control
 that I think we should all be very afraid of actually.
 Sam Altman earlier this week said that in 2028 or by 2028 he expects to have automated
 researchers.
 I'm curious just for your sort of state of AI sort of model development or just progress
 in general and what do you think are the implications.
 Some people have been sort of, you know, saying that AGI is two years away, sort of the AI
 2027 papers, the old Ashen Brenner's situational awareness papers, I'm curious kind of what's
 your reading of the state of play in terms of AI development and what are the implications
 from that.
 So my sense is that people in Silicon Valley are kind of pulling back from the let's call
 it imminent AGI narrative.
 I saw Andrei Carpathi gave an interview where now all of a sudden he's re-underwritten this
 and he says AGI is at least a decade away.
 He's basically saying that the reinforcement learning has its limits.
 I mean it's very useful, it's the main paradigm right now that they're making a lot of progress
 with, but he says that actually the way that humans learn is not really through reinforcement.
 We do something a little different, which I think is a good thing because it means that
 human and AI will be synergistic, right?
 I mean the AI is understanding if it's based on RL be a little different than the way that
 we into it and reason.
 But in any event, I sense more of a pullback from this imminent AGI narrative, you know,
 the idea that AGI is two years away.
 Of course, it's kind of unclear what people mean by AGI but it's kind of, you know, was
 used in this like scary way that it's kind of the super intelligence that would grow
 beyond our control.
 I feel like people are pulling back from that and understanding that yes, we're still making
 a lot of progress and the progress is amazing, but at the same time, you know, what we mean
 by intelligence is multifaceted and it's not like, you know, there's progress being made
 along some dimensions but it's not along every dimension.
 And so therefore, I think, again, I would just, I mean, I've described actually the
 situation we're in right now is a little bit of a Goldilocks scenario where, you know,
 the extremes would be, you know, you kind of have the scary terminator situation, imminent
 super intelligence that will grow beyond our control on the other narrative you hear
 in the press a lot is that we're in a big bubble.
 So in other words, the whole thing is fake.
 And the media is basically pushing both narratives at the same time.
 But hey, I think that the truth is more in the middle.
 It's kind of a Goldilocks scenario where we're seeing a lot of innovation.
 I think the progress is impressive.
 I think we're going to see big productivity gains in the economy from this, but I like
 the observations that biology made recently where he said there's a couple of things that
 really struck me one was AI is polytheistic, not monotheistic, meaning what we're seeing
 is many, instead of just one all knowing, all powerful God, what we're seeing is a bunch
 of smaller deities, more specialized models, you know, you know, it's not that sort of,
 we're not on that kind of recursive self improvement track just yet.
 But you know, we're seeing many different kinds of models make progress in different areas.
 And then the other one was just his observation that AI was middle to middle whereas humans
 are end to end and therefore the relationship is pretty synergistic.
 And I think that's right.
 I mean, I think all those observations are like resonate with me in terms of where we're
 out right now.
 And that's very consistent with what we're seeing as well, where, you know, ideas that
 we thought would for sure get subsumed by the big models are becoming amazingly differentiated
 businesses just because the fat tale of the universe is very fat.
 And you need a really kind of specific understanding of certain scenarios to build an effective
 model.
 And that's just how it's going, you know, no models just like figured out how to do everything.
 Yeah, I mean, the models work best when they have context, you know, and the more, I mean,
 we've all seen this, the more general you're prompt, the less likely it is that you're
 going to be able to, you know, get a great response.
 And I don't know, if you tell the AI, you know, something very general, like what business
 can I create to make a billion dollars, it's not going to give you something actionable,
 you know, you have to get very specific about what you're trying to do, and it has to have
 access to relevant data, and then it can give you some specific answers to our prompt.
 And I think this is, you know, partly biology's point, which is, you know, the AI does not
 come up with its own objective, you know, it needs to be prompted, it needs to be told
 what to do.
 We've seen no evidence that that's at this stage that that's changing.
 We're still at step zero in terms of AI, kind of, you know, somehow coming up with its
 own objective, and as a result of that, you know, the model has to be prompted, and then
 it gives you an output, and that output has to be validated, you have to somehow make
 sure it's correct, because models can still be wrong.
 And more likely you have to iterate a few times, because it doesn't give you exactly
 what you want, so now you kind of re-prompt, and we've all had this experience, right?
 And this is why, like, the chat interface is so necessary, because it takes you a few
 times to kind of iterate, to get to the output that actually has value for you.
 Again, you know, the humans are antennaed, the AI is middle to middle.
 I just don't, you know, we haven't seen any evidence that that fundamental dynamic is
 changing.
 I mean, I think, you know, we're at the, I mean, I'd love to hear what you guys think
 about this, and we're obviously at the outset of agents, and, you know, in agents you can
 give an objective to, and then we'll be able to take tasks on your behalf, but I suspect
 that the agents will work better as well, when they have a much more narrow context.
 They're much less likely to go off the rails, start going in weird directions.
 If you give it, like, a very broad, you know, a very broad task, it's just not likely to
 completely figure it out before it needs human intervention, but if you give it something
 very narrow to do, then it's much more likely to be successful.
 So you know, I would just guess, like, okay, just, you tell the AI, you know, sell my product.
 You know, it's very unlikely that it's just going to figure out, like, what that means
 and how to do that.
 But if you're a sales rep and you're using the AI to help you, there's probably a very
 specific task that you can tell it to do, and it would be much more successful doing
 that.
 So I just tend to think, I mean, this also kind of speaks to the whole job loss narrative.
 I just think that this is going to be a very synergistic tool for a long time.
 I don't think it's going to wipe out human jobs.
 I don't think the need for human cognition is going away.
 It's something that, you know, we'll all use to kind of get this big productivity boost,
 at least for the foreseeable future.
 I mean, I don't know, I don't know if any of us can predict what's going to happen
 beyond five or 10 years, but I mean, that's just what I'm seeing right now.
 I don't know.
 I'm curious.
 What are you guys seeing this front?
 Yeah, I'm generally consistent with that.
 Things are improving.
 So like on agents, the early agents, the longer the running task, the more they would
 go like completely bananas and off the rails, people are working on that.
 I do think like everything's working better in a context.
 Actually, at least from what we've seen that will continue and even, you know, to your
 point on like super smart models, there's like a dozen video models out there.
 And there's not one that's the best at everything or even close to the best at everything.
 There's like literally a dozen that are all the best at one thing.
 And which is a little surprising at least to me because you would think, you know, just
 the sheer size of the data would be an advantage.
 But even that hasn't quite proven out, you know, it is like depending on what you want,
 you want a meme, do you want a movie, do you want, you know, an ad, like it's all very,
 very different.
 And I think this gets to your main point, which is, and Mark Zuckerberg said something
 that I really like.
 Like intelligence is not life, and these things that we associate with life, like we
 have an objective.
 We have free will.
 We're sentient.
 Those just aren't part of a mathematical model that is, you know, searching through
 a distribution and figuring out an answer or even, you know, a model that, you know, through
 a reinforcement learning technique can kind of improve its logic.
 So it's just like the comparison to humans, I think, is it just falls short in a lot of
 ways is what we're saying, you know, we're just different, you know, than in the models
 are way good at things, so they're better than humans at things already, many things.
 The other thing I bring up related to this, which is sort of this sort of gives a little
 orthogonal, but also quite related, which is sort of is the future of the world going
 to be one or a small number of companies or for that other governments or super AIs that
 kind of own and control everything, and sort of all the value rolls up into a handful of
 amenities.
 And, you know, and there you get into this, you know, there's like the hyper-capitalist
 version of it where a few companies make all the money or there's like the hyper-communist
 version of it where you have global state control or whatever, you know, or the instance
 of technology that's going to diffuse out and be like in everybody's hands and be a tool
 of empowerment and creativity and individual effort, you know, expressiveness and is a
 tool for basically everybody to use.
 And I think one of the really striking things about this period of time and you being in
 this role is that this is the period in which the scenario number two is really, I think,
 very clearly playing out, which is that this is the time in which AI is actually hyper-democratizing.
 I think actually AI is actually hyper-democratized.
 It has spread to more individuals, both in the country and around the world, in the shortest
 period of time, the vetting new technology, I think, in history, you know, or something
 like 600 million, you know, users today on rapidly on the way to a billion, rapidly on
 the way to five billion, you know, kind of across all the consumer products.
 And then the best AIs in the world are in the consumer products, right?
 And so if you use the, if you use, you know, current-day, Chagippity or Grok or any of
 these things, like, you know, I can't spend more money, you know, and get access to better
 AI.
 It's in the consumer products.
 And so just in practice, what you have like playing out in real time is this technology
 is going to be in everybody's hands and everybody is going to be able to use it to optimize
 the things that they do, have it be a thought partner, have it be, you know, an assistant
 for building companies, you know, starting companies or creating art or, you know, doing
 all the things that people want to do.
 You know, my wife was just using it this morning to design a new entrepreneurship curriculum
 for our 10-year-olds, right?
 Like, you know, like, literally, it's like, "Oh, wow, that's like a really great idea."
 And it took her a couple hours, and she has like a full curriculum for him to be able to
 start his first video game company.
 And here's all the different skills that he needs to learn, and here's all the resources.
 And like, that's just a level of capability.
 I mean, to have done that without these modern consumer eye tools, you know, you'd have
 to go like higher education specialists or something, you know, which is basically impossible
 to do that kind of thing.
 And, you know, everybody has these stories now in their lives among people they know.
 So we have the, I think we have like a lot of proof that's the track that's this on is
 that this is going to be in everybody's hands, and in fact, that is going to be a really
 good thing.
 And I think David, I think you guys are really playing a key role in making that happen.
 I think it's so important that this technology remained decentralized because the kind of
 the Orwellian concern is kind of the ultimate centralization.
 And fortunately, so far what we're seeing in the market is that it's hyper-competitive.
 There's five major model companies all making huge investments.
 And the benchmark, the model performance, the evaluations are relatively clustered,
 and there's a lot of leapfrogging going on.
 So, you know, Grock releases a new model, it leaves frogs, chat GBT, but then chat GBT
 releases, you know, they leave frogs.
 So they're all like very competitive and close to each other.
 And I think that's a that's a good thing.
 And it's the opposite of what was predicted, you know, through this like imminent AGI story
 where the sort of the story telling there was that one model would get a lead and then
 it would direct its own intelligence to making itself better.
 And so therefore its lead would get bigger and bigger and you kind of get the precursor
 self-improvement and pretty soon you're off to the singularity.
 And we haven't really seen that.
 You know, we haven't seen one model completely pull away in terms of capabilities.
 And I think that's a good thing.
 And so, Eric, to your point about this narrative about the virtual AI researcher, that was one
 variant of this sort of imminent AGI narrative is that the steps would be, you know, models
 get smarter, the models create virtual AI researcher and then you get a million virtual
 AI researchers and then, you know, its singularity.
 And I think just the sleight of hand in that is what is a virtual AI researcher, right?
 It's like a very easy thing to say, but like, what does that really mean?
 And you know, to biology's point about, you know, AI is still middle to middle, it's not
 end to end.
 So if an AI researcher is end to end, there's like things that has to, you know, things
 the person has to figure out.
 They've got to set their own objective.
 They've got to be able to pivot in ways that AI can't, you know, like, is it really feasible
 to create a virtual AI researcher?
 I think there's like parts of the job that, you know, AI could get really good at or even
 better than humans, but probably that tool has to be used by a human AI researcher.
 So I guess the argument I suspect could be sort of teleological in the sense that you
 might need AGI to create a virtual AI researcher as opposed to the other way around.
 And if that's the case, you don't just, you know, you're not going to get like singularity.
 So I'm a little bit skeptical of that claim.
 You know, we'll see what Sam say he could do in 2028.
 I mean, I guess we'll see.
 I think all those claims tend to be like recruiting ideas as opposed to actual predictions.
 He's not the first to mention that idea.
 Other mall companies have been promoting it, but, you know, Leopold has mentioned that too.
 You know, we'll see, but I suspect that that's what's wrong with that argument is that virtual
 AI researcher requires AGI.
 And so the idea that you're going to get AGI through a virtual AI researcher is backwards,
 but we'll see.
 You know, we'll see.
 David, you've also, you and the administration, I think have also been very supportive of
 open source AI, which I think also dovetails into this in terms of like the market being
 very competitive.
 Yes.
 Do you want to spend a moment on what you guys have been able to do on that and how you think
 about it?
 Yeah.
 I mean, so just to the open source is very important because I just think it's synonymous
 with, you know, freedom, I mean, software freedom, you basically could run your own models on
 your own hardware and retain control over your own information.
 And by the way, this is what enterprises typically do all the time is, you know, about half the
 global data center market is, you know, is on prem, meaning enterprises and governments
 create their own data centers.
 They don't go to the big clouds.
 By the way, I've got nothing against the hyperscalers, but just, you know, people like to run their
 own, you know, own data centers and, you know, maintain control over their own data and that
 kind of thing.
 And I think that will be true for consumers to some degree as well.
 So I do think it's an important area that we should, you know, want to encourage and
 promote the irony right now in the market is that, is that the best open source models
 are Chinese.
 And it's sort of a quirk, right?
 It's the opposite of what you'd expect, you'd expect like the American system would promote
 open and somehow the Chinese system would promote closed.
 That has kind of, you know, ended up being a little backwards.
 I think there's like good reasons for it.
 It could just be, it could just be kind of historical accident, the fact that the deep
 seek founder was like very committed to open source and the kind of just kind of that,
 like God, things started that way.
 Or it could be part of a deliberate strategy.
 If you're trying and you're trying to catch up, open source is a really good way to do
 that because you get all the non-aligned developers to want to help your project, which they can't
 do if, you know, with a closed project.
 So it's a great strategy for catching up.
 And then also, if you think that your business model, you know, as a company or as a country
 is, let's say, scale manufacturing of hardware, then you would want the software part to be
 free or cheap because it's your complement, right?
 So you try to commoditize your complement.
 And I don't know whether it's by accident or part of design that seems to be what the
 Chinese strategy has been.
 I think that the right answer for the US in this is to, you know, to encourage our own
 open source.
 I mean, I think it'd be a great thing if we saw more open source initiatives get going.
 I guess there's one promising one called Reflection, which was founded by former, you know, engineers
 from Google DeepMind.
 So I hope we see more open source innovation in the West.
 But look, I think it's very important.
 It's critical.
 And like I said, in my view, it's synonymous with freedom.
 And it's definitely not something we want to suppress.
 Now, just back to the closed ecosystem for a second.
 It's true.
 We have five major competitors there, and they're all spending a lot of money.
 I do worry a little bit that at some point in time at the model, not the model, the market
 consolidates.
 And we end up with, you know, like a monopoly or a duopoly or something like that.
 As we've seen in other technology markets, we saw this with search and, you know, and
 so on down the line.
 And I just think that it would be good if this market stayed more competitive than just
 one or two winners.
 And I don't really know what to do about that.
 I'm just making that observation.
 And I do think that having open source as an option always then ensures that even if
 the market does consolidate that you do have an alternative, and it's an alternative that's
 more fully within your control as opposed to a large corporation or, you know, or the
 deep state, you know, working with that corporation as we saw in the Twitter files that, you know,
 the deep state was working with all these, you know, social media companies and implementing
 much more widespread censorship than I think any of us thought possible.
 So we've seen evidence in the past and, again, in the social networking space about how the
 government could get involved in nefarious ways.
 And it would be good to have alternatives so that, you know, to prevent that or to make
 it less likely that that scenario comes about with AI.
 Yeah, well, as you know, we and others are very aggressively investing in new model companies
 in many kinds, including new foundation model companies.
 And then also, you know, as you're probably there are a whole bunch of new open source
 efforts, you know, that are not yet public that, you know, hopefully will bear fruit over
 the next couple of years.
 So I think that's great.
 At least in the medium term, I think we're looking at an explosion of model development
 as opposed to consolidation.
 And then, you know, we'll see what happens from there.
 Yeah.
 That's really good to hear.
 You know, if we assess kind of the state of the AI race vis-a-vis China, this is the
 only area where we appear to be behind is in this area of open source models.
 Yeah.
 I think, you know, if you don't care whether it's open or closed, I think we have the lead.
 Yeah.
 I think our top models model companies are ahead of the top Chinese companies, although they're
 quite good.
 Yeah.
 But just this narrow area of open source seems to be where they have an advantage.
 So it's great to hear that you guys are seeing, you know, a lot more efforts coming up market.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Just more coming.
 Yeah.
 Good.
 Yeah.
 Definitely more coming.
 The Peter Thiel quipped, you know, many years ago that he thought, you know, crypto would
 be libertarian or decentralizing and that AI would be communist or centralizing.
 And I think one thing we've, perhaps we've learned that technology isn't deterministic
 and that the other set of choices that determine whether these technologies are decentralizing
 or centralizing and maybe we can segue, use that as a segue to go deeper into the state
 of the race with China.
 Maybe David, you could lay out the sort of the, what's most important to get right?
 You've already indicated, you know, open source is one example, you know, you alluded earlier
 to sort of our strategies relates to chips.
 You know, some people say that, yeah, yes, it's a good idea to do what we're doing because
 it'll, you know, limit domestic semiconductor production.
 Other people say, oh, well, you know, some of these companies say chips are their biggest,
 you know, limiting factors.
 And so are we enabling them in some way, maybe won't want you to talk about the sort of state
 of play and then our strategy?
 Yeah.
 So, you know, when we talk about winning the AI race, sometimes we say we're in a race
 against China, sometimes we just leave it a little bit more vague because I don't think
 we should become overly obsessed with our competitors or adversaries.
 I think whether we win or not, well, mostly have to do with the decisions we make about
 our own technology ecosystem, not about, you know, what we do vis-a-vis them.
 And so the president in his July 23rd speech on AI policy, I think mentioned a few of the
 key pillars of, you know, of how we win this AI race.
 And by the way, I'm not saying it ever ends.
 It might be an infinite game, but we want to be in the lead at least.
 And I do think that there could be a period of time where, like, you know, take the Internet
 where, I mean, the Internet's still going on.
 It's happened.
 But we understand that kind of who the winners are is kind of baked now.
 So there could be a period of time in which, you know, it's kind of baked to the winners
 in AI art.
 But in any event, you know, in terms of how we win this race, you know, I mentioned a
 few of the key pillars.
 Number one is innovation.
 You know, it's very important to support the private sector because they're the ones
 who do the innovation.
 We're not going to regulate our way to beating our adversary.
 We just have to out-innovate them.
 I mentioned, I think right now, the biggest obstacle is the frenzy of overregulation happening
 at the states.
 I desperately think we need a single federal standard, a patchwork of 50 different regulatory
 regimes can be incredibly burdensome to comply with.
 I think even the people who support a lot of this regulation are now acknowledging that
 we're going to need a federal standard.
 The problem is that when they talk about it, what they really want is to federalize the
 most onerous version of all the state laws.
 And that can't be allowed either.
 So you know, there's going to be a balance to come, I think as the states become more
 and more unwieldy, you know, as it becomes more of a trap for startups that they now
 have to report into 50 different states at 50 different times, to 50 different agencies
 about 50 different things, people are going to realize this is crazy and they're going
 to try to federalize it.
 And then the question I think is whether we get preemption heavy or preemption light,
 you know, do we get, I think everyone's going to ultimately be in favor of a single federal
 standard, because I think one of America's greatest advantages is that we have a large
 national market, right?
 Not 50 separate state markets, like kind of, you know, Europe before the EU wasn't competitive
 at all on the internet because it's 30 different regulatory regimes.
 And so, you know, if you're a European startup and even if you won your country, it didn't
 get you very far because you still had to, like, you know, figure out how to compete
 in 30 other countries before you could even win Europe and then meanwhile, your American
 competitors won the entire American market and is ready to scale up globally.
 So the fact that we have a single national market is this fundamental to our competitiveness
 and it's why, you know, winners in America then go on to kind of win the whole world.
 So we have to preserve that and I think we will eventually get some federal preemption
 and I think the question will this again be whether we preempt heavy or preempt light.
 The big area is infrastructure, you know, and energy.
 You know, we want to help this amazing infrastructure boom that's happening.
 And the biggest, I think, limiting factor there is just going to be around energy.
 I think President Trump's been incredibly far-sighted in this.
 I mean, he was talking about drill-baby drill many years ago.
 We understood that energy is the basis for everything.
 It's definitely the basis for this AI boom and we want to basically get all of these unnecessary
 regulations, the permitting restrictions, a lot of the nimbeism out of the way so that
 AI companies can build data centers and get power for them and we can talk about them
 more if you want.
 But I think that that's a second really huge part of what it's going to take to win the
 AI race.
 And then the third area is around exports.
 And maybe this has been the most controversial one and it really speaks to the cultural divide
 between Silicon Valley and Washington.
 So I think all of us at Silicon Valley understand that the way that you win a technology race
 is by building the biggest ecosystem, right?
 You get the most developers building on your platform.
 You get the most apps in your app store.
 Everyone just uses you.
 I mean, you know, those are the companies that typically win are the ones that get all the
 users, all the developers and so on.
 And so we in Silicon Valley have a partnership mentality.
 You know, we want to just publish the API's and get everyone using them.
 Washington has a different mentality, right?
 It's much more of a command and control.
 We want you to get approved.
 You know, we kind of want to hoard this technology.
 Only America should have it.
 And this was really fundamental, I think, to the Biden diffusion rule where the point
 of that rule is to stop diffusion, right?
 Diffusion is a bad word.
 But in Silicon Valley, we understand that diffusion is how you win.
 I mean, I don't think we ever called it diffusion before.
 That was a new word for me.
 We just called it usage, but we understand that, like, getting the most users is how
 you win.
 So there's like a fundamental culture clash going on right now.
 And you know, the way I kind of parse it is that what we decide to sell to China is always
 going to be complicated because, you know, there are competitor and our adversary and
 there's the whole potential dual use.
 And so the question of what you sell to China is nuanced.
 But what we sell to the rest of the world, that should be an easy question, which is
 we should want to do business with the rest of the world.
 We should want to have the largest ecosystem possible.
 And every country we exclude from our technology alliance, we're basically driving into the
 arms of China and it makes their ecosystem bigger.
 And what we saw under the Biden years is that they were constantly pushing other countries
 into the arms of China, starting with the Gulf states in October of 2023.
 Basically the Gulf states, you know, I'm talking about countries like Saudi Arabia,
 UAE, longstanding US allies, they weren't allowed to buy chips from the US.
 In other words, they weren't allowed to set up data centers and participate in an AI.
 And you know, here we are telling all these countries that, you know, AI is fundamental
 to the future.
 It's going to be the basis of the economy and yet we're excluding you from participating
 in the American tech stack.
 Well, you know, it's obvious what they're going to do, you know, the only play we're
 giving them is to go to China.
 And so, you know, all of these rules basically just create pent up demand for Chinese chips
 and models and it creates a Huawei Belt and Road.
 And we are hearing that that Huawei is starting to proliferate or diffuse in the Middle East
 and in Southeast Asia.
 And I just think it's a really counterproductive strategy.
 We're completely shooting ourselves in the foot.
 And like the greatest irony is that the people who have been pushing this strategy of driving
 all these countries into China's arms have called themselves China hawks, you know, as
 if what they're doing is hurting China.
 No, it's like it's helping China.
 I mean, it's basically just handing them markets and our products are better.
 But if you don't give these countries a choice to buy the American tech stack, obviously
 they're going to go with the Chinese tech stack and, you know, China is out there promoting,
 you know, deep-seek models and Huawei chips and they're not like wringing their hands
 about, you know, whether, you know, exporting chips for a data center and UAE is going to
 like create the Terminator and, you know, all these like ridiculous narratives that we've
 invented to, you know, reasons we've invented not to sell American technology to our friends.
 So, you know, that that has ended up being, I think, surprisingly, maybe the most controversial
 part of what we've advocated for.
 But but there you have it.
 So in any event, I'll stop there.
 Those are kind of some of the major pillars of what we've been advocating.
 Should we go deeper on sort of the infrastructure and energy point in terms of what is really
 going to take to get enough capacity or what's most important in that second bullet you were
 talking about?
 Yeah.
 I mean, well, so I mean, there are definitely people who are much more knowledgeable about
 energy than I am and are experts in the space.
 But here's what I've been able to kind of divine is.
 So first of all, the administration, President Trump has signed multiple executive orders
 to allow for nuclear to make permitting easier.
 We've even freed up federal land for data centers to hopefully try and help get around
 some of these state and local restrictions, and obviously the president has made it a
 lot easier to stand up new energy projects, power generation, all that kind of stuff.
 I still think, though, that we have a growing nimby problem at the state and local level
 in the US that that is becoming a little bit worrisome.
 And if we don't figure out a way to address it, then it could really slow down the build
 out of this infrastructure.
 In terms of power, so my understanding is that nuclear is going to take five or ten
 years.
 It's just not something that we're going to be able to do in the next two or three years.
 So in the short term, it really means that gas is the way that these data centers are
 going to get powered.
 And the issue with gas, the shortage there, in America, has plenty of natural gas, and
 it exists in enough red states where you could just build out data centers like close to
 the source, which would be smart.
 The issue is there's a shortage of these gas turbines, there's only like two or three
 companies that make these things, and there's a backlog of two or three years.
 So I think that's probably the immediate problem there that needs to get solved.
 However, I do think that in the next two or three years, we could get a lot more out
 of the grid.
 So I've had energy executives tell me that if we could just shed 40 hours a year of peak
 load from the grid to like backup generators to diesel, things like that, you could free
 up an additional 80 gigawatts of power, which is a lot, because I guess the way that it
 works is the grid is only used about 50% of the capacities used throughout the year,
 because they have to build enough capacity for the peak days, like the hottest day and
 summer, the coldest day and winter, those are peak days, and they don't want to commit
 to a bunch of the capacity being used, and then you find out that you have a really cold
 day and winter and people can't get enough heat for their homes.
 And so they can't overcommit to say contracts or data centers, things like that.
 But if you could, again, if you could shed that 40 hours a year of peak load to backup,
 then you would be able to free up 80 gigawatts, which is a lot, and that would definitely
 get us through the next two or three years until the gas turbine bottle next been alleviated,
 and then eventually you get to nuclear.
 So that would be very good.
 I think the issue there is there's a whole bunch of insane regulations preventing load
 shedding.
 So like, for example, you can't use diesel.
 And Chris Wright is the secretary of energy, he's very good at all this stuff, and I think
 he's working on unraveling all of this, so we can actually do this.
 It's funny, David, as you talk about this stuff, I can't help it.
 It's a little bit like the principle is just to the opposite of the EU.
 I think everything we've talked about so far is basically the opposite of the European approach.
 Yeah.
 Well, I mean, the Europeans, I mean, they have a really different mindset for all this stuff.
 When they talk about AI leadership, what they mean is that they're taking the lead in defining
 the regulations.
 And it's like, that's what they're proud of is that they think that's what their comparative
 advantage is, is that they get together in Brussels and figure out what all the rules
 should be, and that's what they call leadership.
 You just announced a, I shouldn't be done them too much, but they just announced a big
 new growth fund, a big new public private sector tech growth fund to grow EU companies
 to scale.
 And I just, I would literally, I was just like, well, it's actually quite, it's almost
 like a game show or something, like do everything they can to strangle them in their crib.
 And then if they, if they make it, if they make it through like a decade of abuse of small
 companies, then they're going to give them money to grow.
 Well, it's what, you know, Ron Reagan had a line about this, which if it moves tax it,
 if it keeps moving regulated, if it stops moving, subsidize it, the Europeans are definitely
 at the subsidize it stage.
 Yeah.
 And I, yeah, I shouldn't be done them too much, but I just, like, I've always been
 proud to be an American, but particularly now, because like we, we just, the fact that
 we've, we've, we've, we're, we, it really feels like we're re centering on core American
 values in a lot of the things that we're talking about, which is just really great.
 Yeah.
 I mean, again, it's, you know, our, our view is that the first of all, we have to win
 the IRA's.
 We want America to lead in this critical area.
 It's like fundamental for our economy and our national security.
 How do you do that?
 Well, our companies have to be successful because they're the ones who do the innovation.
 And again, you're not going to regulate your way to winning the AI race.
 I'm not saying we don't need any regulations, but the point is just that's not, that's not
 what's going to determine whether we're the winners or not.
 David, you recently tweeted that climate doomerism perhaps is giving way to AI doomerism based
 on, you know, bill, bill gates, recent comments.
 What do you mean by this?
 Do you mean it's going to be a major flank, you know, of the, of the, you know, US laughter?
 What, what, what do you mean by this comment?
 Well, I think the left needs a central organizing catastrophe to justify their takeover of the
 economy and to, to regulate everything and especially to control the information space.
 And I think that you're seeing that kind of the allure of the whole climate change doomer
 narrative has kind of faded.
 Maybe it's the fact that they predicted 10 years ago that the whole world be underwater
 in 10 years and that hasn't happened.
 So it's like a certain point, you get discredited by your own catastrophic predictions.
 I suspect that's where we'll be with AI doomerism in a few years.
 But in the meantime, it's a really good narrative to kind of take the place to the climate doomerism.
 There's actually a lot of similarities, I would say.
 You know, you've kind of got, there's a lot of kind of preexisting Hollywood storytelling
 and pop culture that supports this idea, you know, you've got the Terminator movies and
 the Matrix and all this kind of stuff.
 So people have been taught to be afraid of this.
 And then, you know, you, there's enough kind of pseudoscience behind it, you know, kind
 of like, you know, with, like you've got all these contrived studies that like the one
 where they claim that the AI researcher got blackmailed by his own AI model or whatever.
 Look, it's very easy to steer the model towards the answer that you want.
 And a lot of these studies have been very contrived, but there's this patina of pseudoscience
 to it.
 It's certainly technical enough that the average person doesn't feel comfortable saying that
 this doesn't make any sense.
 I mean, it's more like you're an unexpert, what do you know?
 And even Republican politicians, I think, are kind of falling for this.
 So yeah, I mean, it's a really desirable narrative.
 And of course, you know, as AI touches more and more things, more and more parts of the
 economy, every business is going to use it to some degree.
 Because you can regulate AI, then that kind of gives you a lot of control over lots of
 other things.
 And like I mentioned, AI is kind of eating the internet.
 It's like the main way that you're getting information.
 So again, if you can kind of get your hooks into what the AI is showing people, now you
 can control what they see and hear and think, which dovetails with the whole with the left
 since ship, you know, agenda, which they've never given up on dovetails with their agenda
 to brainwash kids, which we, you know, which is kind of the whole woke thing.
 So I mean, this is, this is going to be very desirable for the left.
 And this is why I mean, look, they're, they're already doing this is not like some prediction
 on my part.
 Basically after scam bank run fraud, did what he did with FTX got sent to jail.
 He was like a big effective altruist and he had made pandemics like their big cause.
 They needed a new cause and they got behind this idea of, of X risk, there's existential
 risk, the idea being if there's like a 1% chance of AI ending the world, then we should
 drop everything and just focus on that because you do the expected value calculation.
 And so if it ends humanity, then that's the only thing you should focus on even if it's,
 you know, a very small percentage chance, but they really like reorganize behind this with
 all of them.
 And you know, they've got quite a few advocates and actually it's an amazing story about how
 much influence they were able to achieve largely buying the scenes or in the shadows
 during the Biden years.
 They basically convinced all of the major buying staffers of this view of this like
 imminent super intelligence is coming.
 We should be really afraid of it.
 We need to consolidate control over it.
 There should only be, you know, ideally two or three companies that have it.
 We don't want anyone in the rest of the world to get it.
 And then, you know, what they said is, you know, once we make sure that there's only
 two or three American companies will solve the coordination problems.
 That's what they could search to be the free market.
 We'll solve those coordination problems for buying those companies and we'll be able to
 control this whole thing and prevent the genie from escaping the bottle.
 I think it was like this totally paranoid version of what would happen.
 It's already being, it's already in the process of being refuted.
 But this vision is fundamentally what animated the Biden executive order on AI.
 It's what animated the Biden diffusion rule of marketing.
 You've talked about how you were in a meeting with Biden folks and they were going to basically
 ban open source and they were going to, they're basically going to anoint two or three winners
 and that was it.
 Yeah.
 They told us that, they told us that explicitly and yeah, and they told us exactly what you
 just said.
 They told us they're going to ban open source and when we challenge them on the ability to
 ban open source because it's, you know, we're talking about, you know, math, you know,
 like mathematical algorithms that are taught in textbooks, YouTube videos, any universities,
 you know, they said, well, during the Cold War, we banned entire areas of physics, input
 them off limits and we'll do the same thing for math if we have to.
 Yeah.
 And that's the, yeah, that's the, yeah, that was a very interesting.
 And you'll be happy to know that the guy who actually said that is now an anthropic
 employee.
 No, that's exactly right, and I mean, literally the minute the Biden administration was over
 all the top Biden AI employees went to go work in an anthropic, which tells you who they
 were working with during the Biden years.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 But no, I mean, this was, this was very much the narrative.
 You sort of had this imminent super intelligence and then, you know, one of the frames you heard
 was that AI is like nuclear weapons and GPUs are like uranium or plutonium or something.
 And, and so, and therefore we need like in a, you know, the way, the proper way to regulate
 this is with like an international atomic energy commission.
 And so, you know, again, everything would be sort of centralized and controlled.
 And they would anoint two or three winners.
 And you know, now this, I think this narrative really started to fall apart with the launch
 of deep seek, which really happened in the first, I don't know, a couple of weeks of
 the Trump administration, because, you know, if you asked any of these people what they
 thought of, of China during this time when they were pushing all these regulations, they
 basically, you know, and specifically, well, wait, if we shoot ourselves in the foot by
 over-regulating AI, you know, won't China just win the race?
 If you were to ask them that what they, what they would have said, they did say is that
 China so far behind us, it doesn't matter.
 And furthermore, and this was said completely without evidence, that if we basically slow
 down to impose, you know, all these supposedly healthy regulations, well, China will just
 copy us and do the same thing.
 I think it was absurdly naive view.
 I think that if we shoot ourselves in the foot, China will just be like, thank you very
 much.
 We'll just take leadership in this technology.
 Why wouldn't we?
 But this is what they said and, and you know, when, when, when the Biden executive order
 on AI was crafted, there was no discussion whatsoever of the China compete, you know,
 it was just, it was just, again, assumed that we were so far ahead that, that we could basically
 do anything to our companies and it would just be, it wouldn't, it wouldn't really affect
 our, our competitiveness.
 And I think, I think that narrative really started to fall apart with deep-seek at the
 model level back in April, while we launched a technology called cloud matrix in which
 they compensated for the fact that their chips individually are not as good as Nvidia's
 chips by networking more of them together.
 So they took 384 of them, you use their prowess in networking to create, you know, this rack
 system cloud matrix.
 And it was demonstrated to show that, you know, yes, Nvidia chips are better.
 They're much more power efficient.
 But at the rack level, at the system level, you know, while we could get the job done
 with these, you know, ascend chips and cloud matrix.
 And so again, I think that showed that, you know, we're not the only gaming town on chips,
 which means that if we don't sell our chips to, you know, our friends and allies in the
 Middle East and other places, then while we certainly will.
 So I think it's just been kind of one revelation after another in which we've learned that a
 lot of their preconceptions and belief were wrong.
 And we've talked about the fact that the markets ended up being much more decentralized than
 they ever could have predicted, and I'd also say one other thing, which is they also believe
 that there'd be, you know, imminent catastrophes and haven't, so this is kind of like the equivalent
 to the global warming thing, where we're also supposed to be underwater by now.
 They were saying that models trained on, I think, I don't know, like 10 to 25 flops
 or whatever were like way too risky.
 Well, every single model now at the frontier is trained on that level of compute.
 And so they would have banned us from even being at the place we're at today if we had
 listened to these people back in 2023, so just a couple of years ago.
 So that's like really important to keep in mind that their predictions of imminent catastrophe
 have already been refuted.
 And so things are moving in a direction that I think are very different than, you know,
 what they thought in, you know, let's call it the first year after the launch of CHACH-EPT.
 Right.
 So David, just to come back real quick while we still have you on crypto.
 So the administration, and I think the country had a significant victory earlier this year
 with the president signing the stablecoin bill into law, which was the genius act.
 And I think that I'll just tell you what we see is like the positive consequences of
 that law have been even bigger than we thought.
 And I would say that's both for the stablecoin industry and you now see actually a lot of
 financial institutions of all kinds embracing stablecoins in a way that they weren't before
 and you know, sort of the phenomena spreading in America, you know, by the way, you know,
 being in the lead and doing very well there, but just also more broadly, just as a signal
 to the crypto industry that like this, you know, this really is a, you know, this really
 is a new day and there really are going to be regulatory frameworks that make these things
 possible and, you know, that are responsible, but also make this industry really possible
 to flourish in the U.S.
 As you know, there's a second piece of legislation, you know, being constructed right now, which
 is the market structure bill called the Clarity Act, which is sort of the phase two of the
 legislative agenda.
 And I wondered maybe if you could just tell us a little bit about your view of the importance
 of that bill and then, you know, kind of how do you think that process is going?
 I think it's extremely important.
 So as you mentioned, we passed the genius act a few months ago, but that was just for
 stablecoins.
 Stablecoins are about 6% of the total market cap in terms of tokens.
 So 94% are all the other types of tokens and the Clarity Act would apply to all of that
 and provide the regulatory framework for all those other crypto projects and companies.
 You know, if we could be sure that, you know, currently we have a great SEC chairman, Paul
 Atkins, and if we could be sure that Paul Atkins and a person like Paul Atkins was always
 at the SEC forever, that we wouldn't necessarily need legislation because they're already in
 the process of implementing, like, much better rules and providing regulatory clarity.
 But the truth is that we don't know for sure.
 And if you're a founder who's trying to make a decision now about where you're going to
 build your company, you want to have certainty for 10 years out, 20 years out, you know,
 we want to encourage long-term projects.
 And so, again, I think it's very important to canonize the rules that first provide the
 Clarity and then to make sure there's enough stability around them and sort of canonize
 those rules in legislation.
 That's the only way that you provide that long-term stability.
 I think that we will get the Clarity Act done.
 Like you mentioned, it passed the House with about 300 votes, about 78 Democrats.
 So it was substantially bipartisan.
 I think it will ultimately -- it's now going through the Senate.
 I think it will ultimately get done.
 We're negotiating with a dozen or so Democrats.
 We have to get to 60 votes.
 So that's the hard part is under the filibuster.
 We got to get to 60.
 So -- but we're negotiating with about a dozen Democrats, and I do think that we will ultimately
 get to that number.
 By the way, we ended up having 68 votes in the Senate for genius, including 18 Democrats.
 So I do think that even if we just get, you know, two-thirds of the number of Democrats
 we got for genius, then, you know, we'll be fine on Clarity.
 But you know, this will provide the regulatory framework again for all the other tokens besides
 stablecoins, and I think it's just a critical piece of legislation.
 And yeah, this would ultimately, I think, kind of complete the crypto agenda where we've
 kind of, you know, moving from, you know, Biden's war on crypto to Trump's crypto capital, the
 planet.
 And then, you know, I think the industry will have this ability it needs and can just focus
 on innovating and there'll be, you know, rule updates and things like that.
 But, you know, we'll fundamentally have the foundation for the industry in place.
 On Genius Act, you know, President Trump really made that bill possible.
 And first of all, it was his election that completely shifted the conversation on crypto.
 We would still be, you know, if a different result had been reached, we would have, again,
 sort of like figure out the SEC, the founders will still be getting prosecuted.
 We wouldn't know what the rules are.
 Elizabeth Warren would be calling the shots.
 So President Trump's election made everything possible, and it's his commitment to the industry.
 And he, and his commitment to keeping his promises during the election that's made all
 of this possible.
 But also, I mean, he got directly involved in making sure the Genius Act passed.
 It was the legislation was declared dead many times.
 I saw it with my eyes that, you know, he was able to persuade recalcitrant votes and twist
 arms, cajole and charm and, you know, he ultimately got it done.
 And I think that clarity will be a similar result.
 People always prematurely declaring these things to be dead or whatever.
 There are a lot of twists and turns to legislative process.
 It's definitely true that you don't want to see the sausage getting made.
 But, but anyway, I think we're on a good track right now.
 Good.
 Fantastic.
 Great.
 Pete Buttigieg went on all in recently, and you guys talked about the left's identity crisis,
 and he's hoping for a more moderate, you know, center left to emerge at the same time we
 see mum Donnie in New York.
 I'm curious what you think of, what are you seeing in terms of what is the future in terms
 of for the Democratic Party in terms of it?
 Is there a more moderate presence or is it kind of this mum Donnie style, you know, woke
 populism?
 I mean, it certainly seems to me that mum Donnie and, I don't know, like the woke socialism
 seems to be the future of the party.
 I mean, that's where all the energy is in their base.
 I mean, I don't want that to be the case.
 I'd rather have a rational Democrat party, but that seems to be where their base is,
 where the energy is, and you don't really hear Democrats within the party trying to
 self-police and distance themselves from that.
 You saw, I mean, all the major figures in the Democrat party have endorsed mum Donnie.
 So yeah, I mean, that's where that party seems to be headed.
 I think that partly it's where their base is at.
 I think partly it might be a misread of, it's sort of, it could be kind of like a partial
 reaction to Trump where they feel like, you know, establishment politics kind of failed.
 And so they need a populism to the left to compete with a populism to the right.
 And so I think that's maybe part of the calculation for why they're going this direction.
 But I don't, you know, I firmly, I don't think it works.
 I don't think socialism works.
 I don't think the, you know, defund the police, empty all the jails, policies work.
 So you know, I think we're about to get another, you know, case, a teaching moment in New York.
 Unfortunately, it's not going to be good for the city.
 But you know, we've seen this movie before, but yeah, that's where, I mean, it does appear
 that's where the Democrat party is.
 I don't completely get it.
 I mean, other people have made this observation, but they do seem to be on the 20 percent side
 of every 80, 20 issue, you know, opening the border, you know, the soft on crime stuff,
 you know, releasing all the repeat offenders and just sort of this, you know, anti-capitalist
 approach, you know, which I think will be disastrous for the economy.
 I mean, this, but this is, this is kind of where the party's out right now.
 It is, it's a little scary because it does mean that if we lose elections in places where
 we do lose elections, it's like, you know, there, you can end up with something really
 horrible, not just like, you know, we're not just playing in the 40 yard lines anymore
 in American politics.
 And that, that is a little bit scary.
 Yeah.
 And I, I do think that, you know, if it weren't for Donald Trump, I think in a way we might
 already be there, you know, I think, you know, we have to make sure that this, this, the
 Trump revolution continues lastly, and we were just talking about New York recently in an
 episode all in San Francisco, you, you know, endorsed bringing the National Guard, you
 know, being many off had his comments, he sort of, you know, went back and forth with
 those comments.
 I'm curious if speaking of teaching moments, I'm curious if you see San Francisco as savable
 in, in some sense, and, and what, what needs to be true to, to get there, if so.
 Well, Daniel Larry is the best mayor we've had in decades.
 So I think he's doing a very good job within the constraints that San Francisco presents.
 So the, the, the mayor job, unfortunately, we have a weak mayor in San Francisco.
 I don't mean him.
 I just mean like the way it's all set up, the board of supervisors has, you know, a ton
 of power and over time they've been able to kind of transfer power from the mayor to themselves.
 And then of course you got all these left wing judges.
 I mean, it's just amazing to me that there's a case right now, this is a case that galvanized
 me several years ago, the case of Troy McAllister who was a repeat offender who killed two people
 on New Year's Eve, I think it was like 2020 and he was arrested four times, you know,
 in the year before that he, he ended up killing these two people and he had a very, very long
 criminal history, had committed armed robbery before it stolen many cars.
 And he should have been in jail.
 He should not have been released, but he was basically released thanks to the zero bail
 policies of Chase Aboudin, who was then the district attorney who he got recalled.
 There was a huge outcry.
 I mean, even in San Francisco for there to be a recall of, I mean, you got to be like
 seriously left wing to basically alienate San Francisco and Chase Aboudin managed to be
 so far out there that he alienated even San Francisco.
 And yet I don't know why Troy McAllister isn't sentenced already in jail for 20 years plus,
 but his case is still pending through the courts, never ending.
 And there's a left wing judge who's considering just giving him diversion.
 That means you'd just get released with an ankle bracelet or something.
 That's insane.
 So I mean, that's what we're dealing with in San Francisco.
 I mean, like crazy left wing judges who want to release all the criminals.
 And you know, and so I just wonder, like, is Daniel up against too many constraints?
 And therefore, I know he doesn't want the president to send in the National Guard, but
 maybe ultimately it would be helpful.
 But in any event, I think the president has just has agreed to kind of hold off on that
 out of, you know, Daniel had a good conversation with the president and asked him to hold back.
 And any of the president agreed and is giving him time to implement his solutions.
 And look, if if if Daniel and his team can keep making progress and fix the problems
 without the National Guard having to come in, then so much the better.
 We'll just see if and I know he wants to.
 And like I said, he's the best mayor we've had in decades.
 It's just a question of whether he'll be too constrained by the other powers that be in
 the city.
 David, thank you so much for coming on the podcast.
 Yeah.
 Fantastic.
 Thank you, David.
 It was great.
 Yeah.
 And thank you for the work.
 Yes.
 We as much as anybody appreciate the work that you've done to fix the things in the past
 and to put us on a great road to the future.
 Yeah.
 Well, thanks.
 I appreciate what you guys have done as well.
 So thank you for your support, everything you're doing.
 So, I appreciate it.
 That's fine.
 [MUSIC]
