TITLE: Two TradFi Execs on Why HYPE Is the Best Opportunity in Digital Assets Today: Bits + Bips
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tk1mlR0STq4
VIDEO_ID: tk1mlR0STq4

TRANSCRIPT:
We think that hyper-liquid quite frankly is the most exciting thing in the digital space today.
 This is sort of like like micro-strategy 10 years ago when lots of institutions really had
 no other ways to get Bitcoin exposure than through micro-strategy. That's kind of where we are right
 now on Hi. Hi everyone, I'm your host Steve Ehrlich, executive editor at Unchained. To break down
 the newest debt that began trading on NASDAQ, hyper-liquid strategies. We have gave a shameless
 CEO of hyper-liquid strategies and Bob Diamond, the former CEO of Barclays and the executive
 chairman, to break everything down for us. But before we dive in, let's just take a quick break
 to hear from the sponsors who make this show possible. Mantell is launching the global
 hackathon 2025 to accelerate the future of real-world assets. With a $150,000 prize pool,
 backing from a $4 billion treasury and direct access to Bybit's 7 million plus users,
 this is the ultimate ecosystem for builders. All right, so before we get in, I'd love to just
 hear about both of your journeys into crypto. David, why don't we begin with you? How did you
 get involved with this project? What's been your journey down the rabbit hole? Sure,
 as far as my journey into crypto, I've been a traditional finance guy for years. I've been doing
 basically private equity style investing into financial services for over 25 years.
 Banks insurance companies, lots of stuff in between. In 2015, I made an investment in Bitcoin.
 I should have bought more. But once you have an investment, you start really focusing on things,
 and I would be held. I only get the only ones I don't have anymore is over the years,
 particularly early on. When I was explaining Bitcoin to people, I would give away a little bit,
 I'd send somebody $5 or $2 or whatever. And now it's worth actual real money.
 But other than that, I've never sold any Bitcoin. I should have bought more, of course. But anyway,
 that was 2015. As a serious investment, the first thing we did as a firm, and the first thing I've
 done personally in crypto, was in 2021, we invested in Circle. We can obviously talk about that in
 more detail if you want, but that went very well, incredibly well, leading up for four and a half
 years before the IPO. And then this last hyper-liquid strategies is the second thing we've done
 professionally. And we were really made aware of hyper-liquid, the blockchain in the exchange,
 calling it early part of 2025. We spent time studying it. We can go into this more detail
 if you want, but we got to know the paradigm, guys. It made a lot of sense to have a debt
 for hyper-liquid for a whole bunch of reasons. And we got serious about it kind of in the late
 spring, and we announced the deal on July 14th. All right, great. And Bob, I would mention that
 a lot of people watching and listening will be familiar with your background in Barclays, but
 would love to just hear even more specifically about your journey into crypto and why you decided
 to get involved in this project. Well, although David recommended to me that I buy Bitcoin at a
 much lower price than this. I did not. My introduction was 2021. We're introduced to the team at Circle.
 We engaged with a DSPAC. We did a tremendous amount of work with Jeremy Allaire and the team
 and coming up with evaluation. And over the course of two years when we're working with the SEC to
 have that approved, I'll come back to that later. I've got to tell you, Steve, it was for me,
 I'm a bit of a checky. Both David and I started kind of in the back office as IT people.
 David at Solomon Brothers and myself earlier than that at Morgan Stanley. And we both have a bias
 to check. We both have a bias to the infrastructure. And I was blown away the more I peeled the onion
 back on blockchain and the contribution that could make to financial services.
 On the other hand, it didn't take long to convince me that stablecoins were really going to be
 something that was natural, quite honestly. I mean, to do the opposite, to convince me that
 there's not going to be an institutional, digital version of major currencies would be impossible
 in this day and age. So the question is, is it a central bank developed initiative or a private
 sector developed initiative and then highly, highly regulated? I was clear it was going to be the
 latter. Eric Rosengren, who's part of our organization, but at the time was the president of the Boston
 Fed, was a great advisor and counsel to me as he was chairing the white paper from the Fed
 on the central bank version of the digital coin. So blockchain, stablecoin, the grounding
 I had there in the next two to three years before we ever even considered doing something different
 was enough for me to be very convinced that the integration of the best of traditional finance
 and the best of digital is going to happen. And then I'm getting ahead of myself, but my goodness,
 the tailwinds coming from this administration relative to Biden and Janet Yellen and Gary Gensler,
 who were frankly guilty of malign, neglect in terms of financial services and what's best for
 the customer. And I think the tailwinds now mean that there are traditional finance people like
 Bob Diamond and David Seamus, like Larry Fink, like the CEO of both Visa and MasterCard, who are
 really talking more and more about the importance of blockchain and stablecoins. And that leads to,
 as David said, it led to a very interesting opportunity for us with hyper liquid, which quite frankly,
 we are even more excited now to learn about this initiative. We think that hyper liquid,
 quite frankly, is the most exciting thing in the digital space today.
 Great. Yeah, we're going to get into all of that. It's funny. I mean, thinking about just
 juxtaposing Circle trying to go public by us back a couple years ago at what they could
 eat billion-dollar valuation. Originally, Ford was our Indian duration.
 And then I think that you doubled it. Yeah, but before it ended up not happening. And now just a
 few years later, it looked like what happened. Yeah, four and a half billion sounds in pretty good
 in retrospect. Yeah, but luckily for our fund investors, we did invest in the private round
 at 2.7 billion. So we did fine. All right, so you get to keep your jobs. So that's this.
 Exactly. All right, so look, I mean, our audience is pretty astute when it comes to this type of
 stuff. And I know the well-versed in hyper liquid and in the general offerings set the platform and
 that the prep stacks provides. But we'd really love just a minute or two explaining why hyper liquid
 and why you think a diet is the right vehicle for it. You know, you have an existing thing
 that's doing really well. You have real potential future growth that feels exciting in different
 areas. And then you say, okay, you know, where are the tokens being valued? The tokens are an
 equity, but they're equity-like. You could use traditional financial valuation metrics to look
 at the tokens and to look at the valuation. And it's really not that expensive. It's a pretty
 compelling valuation. And, you know, using the words crypto, high growth, you know, lots of
 opportunity, lots of cash flow, and compelling valuation are usually not things that are said
 in the same sentence these days. But that's how we think about the hyper liquid token.
 So then the last question is why in a debt, well, you know, one of the reasons that we think
 the valuation is pretty compelling is that it's not that easy to buy the hyper token. You know,
 particularly if you're sitting in the United States, you got to get on airplanes or people
 deal with VPNs or there's all sorts of hoops you have to go through to buy something that we think
 is very interesting and exciting business today. And, you know, the ultimate need for a debt,
 the ultimate use for a debt is making things more accessible. You know, when Michael Seller
 came out with micro strategies years ago, you know, that was creating that was solving a problem
 for a lot of people that wouldn't find it easy to buy Bitcoin, whatever it was 10 years ago.
 Today, it's a lot easier to buy Bitcoin, but it's not so easy to buy hype. So it's a long
 answer to your question, but it sort of pulls it all together and hopefully that's helpful.
 Yeah, and that's helpful. Forgive me. hype is not available on platforms like like Coinbase or
 Kraken or any of those for for us. Nope, it is not I think it's available, I believe, on Robinhood
 in the US only recently. Okay. Okay. I do not believe it's on any other it might be available on
 Binance US though might not. I haven't checked recently. I think they announced it, but I'm not
 sure it actually happens. But they're the only place where there's any real liquidity is on their
 own exchange. That's it. Okay. Bob, anything from from your point of view, I promise I won't ask you
 both to answer every single question, but. Yeah, I mean, I think I think David is given a very
 solid answer, but I think in my mind, this is a way to be an investor in the whole ecosystem around
 hyper liquid, not just hype the coins. We found a very elegant way to create liquidity for US
 equity investors giving a highly liquid opportunity on NASDAQ. And when you think about the cash flow
 that's being generated, 11 employees over a billion dollars in free cash flow. And the fact that over
 90% of that cash flow is buying back and retiring the native token hype. This is the economic equivalent
 of having a corporate buyback. And this is very different than just a pile of bitcoins and the
 valuation competing with an ETF and competing with a cash offering. So David and I believe that we
 have a team in place that can create real value for US equity investors in this ecosystem.
 Okay. So great. So first of all, congrats on finalizing the deal and starting to trade. I mean,
 what's it been like the last couple days as a publicly traded firm? Seems like the price is doing
 okay so far. Yeah, so we trade into the ticker per P-U-R-R for hyper liquid, just in case
 of make sure everyone knows. And you know, look, since we announced this in July, the premiums for
 Gats have come down quite a bit. MicroStrategy, sort of the leader, you can see everyone knows
 what's happened there. So, you know, we're trading at a modest discount right now. I find I think
 there's nothing more unbecoming than a CEO complaining about their valuation. So I'm not going to be
 one of those guys, but I do think that for any investor looking interested in hyper liquid right
 now is an awfully interesting entry point opportunity to come in. You're coming in again at a discount
 to where the underlying hype tokens trade, it's a US equity, it's easily tradable. And I think it's
 very attractive. Yeah. Okay. So yeah, I do want to get into it. It's only day two, by the way,
 it's day two of trading. So we're still watching. Listen, we like to liquidity. We like the direction
 that we're heading in. We have a lot of opportunities to be investors here as well. So this is a very
 exciting time. And I think Steve, you know this, I don't need to say it, but for you and for all of
 your listeners, you know, having met Jeff, having been with him in Singapore, having before that,
 already convinced ourselves that the blockchain being recognized as the potential future of finance
 is a real thing. This is an incredible operation that Jeff and his team have built.
 And now being in a position where we are kind of part of that team in spreading the gospel.
 And while it sounds simple, we're now listed on NASDAQ, but you know, credit to David and the team
 to find a good partner as we did in San Therapeutics, because we really needed to have a reverse
 merger partner so we could be listed publicly. It's a huge advantage for us right now. And all
 the work that's been done in managing that whole process is paying dividends now. We're, you know,
 almost a billion dollar listed public company and represent a tremendous opportunity for
 US equity investors. And again, I'm going to say it. I think the single most exciting thing in the
 digital space right now and a layer one blockchain that is now poised to have other builders come on
 and put other non-crypto assets on the exchange. We have Nvidia coming, we have Tesla.
 David, you can probably talk a little bit more about that. But wow, this is just an incredible
 development. Okay. Yeah, I do want to get into all that what's coming. But as you mentioned,
 David, it's been a difficult time for debts. I mean, for once focused on the flagship Bitcoin
 and ETH, but you guys were on an altcoin debt. And I do want to kind of ask you what you think
 some of the key differences are in running a debt, even if it is the flagship one for a major altcoin
 as opposed to one focused on Bitcoin or ETH like the most liquid tokens in the world. How does that
 impact how you try to put your treasury to work to how you manage liquidity to everything?
 Yeah, I'd say a couple of things. One, certainly versus Bitcoin, where there's no real staking
 yields, having an asset with yields makes a big difference. The staking yields we're going to get
 and the interest we're earning on our cash right now is much more than we need to cover our operating
 expenses of the company. So off the bat, we are absolutely stable and there's no issues there.
 Secondly, we are actively investigating ways where we can earn more yield on our tokens over time
 beyond just the staking yield. I think that we want to be very careful and very judicious about that.
 I think that you can imagine how much my phone is ringing right now
 with opportunities to put hype to work beyond just staking. And we think in traditional finance
 timeframes, not crypto. In crypto, a world three weeks is stinking long term. That's not an insult,
 that's just how the world works in the crypto world. We'll think hard about these opportunities,
 but we're not going to rush into them and we're going to be very careful and we care about things
 like credit risk and cattle party risk, all that stuff. Furthermore, how it's different,
 the scarcity of that value we think is just very different here. Again, this is sort of like
 micro strategy 10 years ago when lots of institutions really had no other ways to get Bitcoin exposure
 than through micro strategy. That's kind of where we are right now on hype. And maybe we won't be
 there forever, maybe we will, I don't know. But that's a really important factor and it's very
 different than the larger crypto dash right now, whether it's Ether, Solana or Bitcoin.
 They have other advantages. They do lots of stuff. I'm not going to be negative or positive about
 them. They can come out and tell you what they're doing. But to me, it's just so obvious here.
 It's such an obvious thing. And if you believe that hyper liquid is going to grow the way it is,
 if you believe that it has a place in the future like we all feel that way,
 it's just really hard for me to imagine that getting an entry into hyper liquid through
 our super PURR wouldn't be just a great way to do it right now.
 So let's go through some of the mechanics of the deal, because I just want to put all the numbers
 out on the table right now. How much hype do you currently earn at this point?
 That's huge. It can happen to have these things in front of me. So I believe right now,
 we own 12.6 million tokens. We also have about, yeah, about 300 million or so in cash or
 and then about 300 million in cash beyond that. So when if you asked about structure of the deal,
 those 12.6 million tokens were contributed to the deal in kind. So more than half the capital we
 raised came in kind, not in cash, but 300 million is still a significant amount of money.
 I was just going to go ahead. I'm sorry. The incline tokens, did they come from the foundation
 or where did they came from? They came from investors that we knew that owned the token.
 So paradigm being the most obvious one, they partnered with us on this deal.
 They're a co-sponsor with us. I don't know the number of hands. I think it's sort of publicly
 known that they're one of the largest, if not the largest owner of hype. They contributed
 some, but certainly not all of their hype. And from going on down there, we have other people
 added hype contributed here. And I'm curious too. As far, I know those tokens have mostly been
 staked through Anchorage. Is that correct? Yes. Are those tokens under any sort of lockup? Are
 the transfer restrictions? Nope. Other than the seven day staking lockup, nothing beyond that.
 Okay, interesting. Because I have written a couple of stories in the past about
 Dats and sometimes playing games with locked tokens that can still "be staked" or "moved in
 different places." And it seems like there's a lot that can be done with "lock" tokens.
 But that's not the case here. We're on day two. We will be investigating things to do with our
 tokens besides staking, where we think we're going to earn a very handsome yield versus the
 staking yield. But we're only going to be thoughtful and judicious about it. And as I said, we might
 do it if we like it and we probably won't if we don't. But at the moment, 100% of that 12.6 or
 nearly 100 is staked with Anchorage. And it's all freely like you get on staking and there's no
 restriction. I couldn't state it any time I want with seven days notice and do whatever I want.
 And then the cash is cash sitting in a bank account or earning interest right now.
 Gotcha. And the cash, forgive me. But was this was this done through a pipe or was it just a
 typical equity raise? One of the things I'm trying to understand too is I'm sure you've seen some
 other dads and when pipe shares get registered, there's big sell walls.
 Yes. So the answer is it was the whole thing was the pipe, both the tokens and the cash.
 But because we used a structure called the double dummy structure, that's a corporate finance term
 where we went out and got shareholder approval and we achieved the tax outcome that we wanted.
 Because of all that, the way it was structured is the day we closed, meaning yesterday, everybody
 got shares that were fully tradable without any unlocks or anything that happened. So the stuff
 you're talking about, I know exactly what you mean, which are deals that got done frankly much
 quicker than we did. But the people got shares that were unregistered. So you had a huge percentage
 of the shareholders sitting there with unregistered shares they couldn't sell. And then at some point
 in the future, whether it was a month or two months or whatever it was, three months, you had some
 day where the stock dropped probably a lot because everybody got their shares. So for better or for
 worse, we've done that already, right? That was yesterday for us. We're now past that. Every single
 share of this company, other than the sponsor shares that we received, which have a one year
 vesting, every single share and every single investor that put up money, whether it was tokens
 or cash has freely tradable shares right now. And they could sell right now, they could sell
 tomorrow, no restrictions. All right, that's good to hear. And I'm curious too, just about the timing
 of the deal. I know that there was a slight delay because I think there were challenges reaching
 for them on November 18th. Can you just briefly explain what happened there? Yeah, so in order to
 get one of these deals passed, we had six votes, I believe. I hope I'm getting these numbers precisely
 correct. But I think two of the six votes required not only 50% vote of the people voting, but it
 actually required at least 50% of the total outstanding shareholders to vote. Yes. And we had said this
 publicly, so this isn't a big secret. We had the delay for two weeks, just because we were trying
 to round up those shareholders to vote. The actual votes were coming in, I think, above 95% in favor
 of the deal. So there wasn't any serious objection to this deal. There was wasn't like some big proxy
 battle ago. Yeah, I saw that in the fall, just 95%. It was the fine art of finding small
 investors who hadn't been contacted in years. We were chasing down people on airports. I can't
 tell you what went on over the last three or four weeks to get this. It was it was amazing,
 amazing system. Of course, we're doing this for Sonnet Therapeutics, which is a company that we
 weren't involved in in the beginning. So you can imagine we were working together though. Their team
 was great. It was just really hard to heard the kids. Yeah, I can only imagine when it's like to
 try to find some of these shareholders that maybe didn't even know they own shares in Sonnet. Exactly.
 You have to explain what Hector Liquid is and what dad is.
 Totally. And, you know, I had people, I was literally making phone calls myself. You had people
 saying, Oh, I want to think about it. I'm not sure. I feel that the deal. You had people.
 You did people that even though they were a public company.
 Yeah, I said, look, I have your name on a list. You've got a proxy, you know, as far as,
 as far as, you know, we're concerned, you, you own those shares on October 20th, which was the
 record date. So there was a lot of this stuff going on. It was really, it was an amazingly
 manual process. But you got to the finish line. That's the important thing. Gotcha.
 And then I think I saw Sonnet's going to remain operating as, as like I said, I guess up entity.
 Can you, because I know there, there has been debates as to whether or not it makes sense to
 have an operating company or not. Can you maybe walk us through why it made sense to do that?
 Yeah, I think to be a dad under the current regulation we all did by, you have to have an
 operating company doing something. It doesn't have to be the one you bought originally. It could
 change over time. Owning, owning tokens on in treasury is not considered an operating business.
 So day one, or day two, as we are in today, we need an operating business. And that's Sonnet,
 which is more or less identical to what it was before we closed. I think over time over, you know,
 that'll mean like days, I mean months and years, it may make sense to, you know, for Sonnet to
 have a different home. And it may make sense for us to be in a different business, a different
 operating business. It may make sense for maybe some of the Sonnet assets to do something and us to
 keep other things. We'll consider it for better or for worse. It's no longer a meaningful part
 of the total market capital of this company right now. It's small relative to the total capital,
 so it's somewhat immaterial. But we'll obviously figure out, we think it's best for us and our
 shareholders. And, you know, and also best for Sonnet and their mission, which is quite a great
 mission. I mean, look, they're they're trying to cure cancer. And God knows I hope they're successful,
 or someone like them is successful. Yeah, gotcha. Okay. All right. Well, we have a lot more to talk
 about, but we have to just take a very quick break to hear from another one of our spots.
 Mantle has entered a new phase as the distribution layer connecting tradfi and on-chain liquidity.
 To accelerate this vision, the Mantle Global Hackathon 2025 is inviting developers to build
 scalable RWA and DeFi products. Why build on Mantle? It's an ecosystem built for builders.
 You get direct access to buy bits 7 million plus users for potential listing exposure,
 support from the $4 billion Mantle Treasury, and mentorship from top VCs like Spartan
 and Animoca Brands. With six tracks, prioritizing RWAs and RealFi, and a $150,000 prize pool plus
 grants, this is your chance to deploy on a high performance modular L2. Register now.
 The link is in the show notes. Okay. All right. We're back. So let's get a little bit more into
 the hyper liquid ecosystem as has been well documented by us and plenty of others throughout the last
 12 months or so. It's been a rocket ship. It's been one of the real breakout stars of all of crypto,
 perhaps only matched by the likes of Pauline Market and production markets.
 But where do you think it is now? It's been a difficult two months or so for the industry.
 And hyper liquid, in particular, faced a lot of pressure on October 10th with some of the
 massive liquidations and some controversy surrounding its ADL policies on that day.
 So I'd love to just hear from your perspective or whoever, like what happened that day
 and kind of what it means going forward, especially as the market is sort of stuck in a little bit
 of a low here. You know, I look, Bob, I'd love to go chime in to add anything around October 10th,
 which we spent a lot of time looking at and discussing amongst ourselves. But I think two things
 happen on that day views to be hyper liquid, and they were both more or less the way it's supposed
 to work. So one thing that happened is that the system ran as far as I know with a hundred percent
 uptime. And I think there are a whole bunch of other exchanges, you know, major ones like finance
 that didn't do that. So off the bat, like it was up a hundred percent of its time for its customers
 doing what it's supposed to do. The second thing that happens, I think a lot of people got a lesson
 in how ADLs actually work and what it means to be a perfect exchange. So what I mean by that is
 a perp is a derivative. For every long, there's a short, for every short there's a long.
 And I think everyone knows, every time you put a perp trade on hyper liquid, it shows you at what
 price your liquidation is. If you're long, you know, if going at the time, which was at 117,
 and you're whatever, 10x long, it tells you at, you know, 110 or whatever that whatever the math is,
 that you're going to be liquidated out. When that happens really quickly, in a time like, you know,
 whatever was 430 and October 10th, they're liquidating longs. The exchange never sat there and said,
 we're going to take positions. Their job is to pair off longs and shorts. Their job is not to take
 positions in either direction. And if there are literally no longs left or a lot less longs left
 than they had before, they have to have the same number of shorts left with vice versa. And I think
 that there's I don't think there's any debate whether what happened with some of these ADLs was
 against, you know, hyper liquids rules or terms or anything like that. I just think people didn't
 like to feel for it. Didn't feel right to them. But that's how they have to function. And by the way,
 as we all know, it didn't take long on the October 10th for Bitcoin. Will you Bitcoin is the best
 example Bitcoin to rally back? You know, if you fell asleep at, you know, 4pm on October 10th and
 you woke up midday on the 12th, you know, Bitcoin went from like 117 to 115. But along the way,
 it was quite a quite a couple of days. And, you know, that's exactly why they had to do that, right?
 If they were just sitting there, you know, with a bunch of, you know, naked positions, you know,
 that would have been a problem for them. And it's obvious that that's not what that's how
 the exchange is doing. And the exchange yet it's an exchange. It's not hundreds of billions
 dollars a capital looking to take positions. Bob, I know you're... Listen, I thought it was
 an incredibly fascinating day. The blockchain that was built by Jeff and team
 behaved and operated exactly as advertised, not a second of downtime,
 incredible liquidations and transactions and volatility and volumes. Very, very, very impressive.
 And, you know, I'd like to say we knew that would be the case. We did know that would be the case.
 But boy, you feel better after a serious stress test like that. And I think
 one could not have created a more challenging stress test for, you know, an exchange that's
 been built in the last three years and is gaining this much notoriety and volumes and credibility.
 So, to see a market action like that and volumes like that and operations like that and not a
 single break and not a single second of downtime feel terrific. Right. So, what else are you excited?
 By the way, I don't know another exchange in the world that they can say that.
 Yeah, it's interesting. I mean, I know that like DEXs in general have been very proud that like
 during periods of acute market stress, they haven't necessarily gone down. But
 yeah, I mean, I know there are issues with finance and questions about their ADL policy
 there. And for years and years and the past, there was always this joke on Twitter, like,
 is Coinbase down yet? Because they historically, like during times of peak trading activity,
 even regardless of whether or not it was bullish or bearish, there was always that joke that we
 got really exciting. Coinbase would go down for a little bit. I don't think they've had that issue
 for a while. I actually used to work to crack in and that was like a little joke that we used to
 have. Although we were always relative to the size of Coinbase's customer base, as opposed to ours.
 But yeah, it is something that is certainly, it was a learning experience for a lot of people that
 didn't know. I guess they thought ADL stand for anti-defamation league or something like that.
 They never actually knew what it meant in terms of finance. And then there was a lot of
 misperceptions or misconceptions about how it worked. And there were people very
 loud on Twitter that had profitable short positions, like why were they liquidated when they were in
 the money? But as you mentioned, Dave, at some point, there has to be matching signs on each order,
 or else the book itself is taking large positions that can be untamble. So I get that.
 Let's talk a little bit more about the ecosystem though. You talked about the billion dollar
 sort of like annualized revenue, which obviously is very laudable. I think the only company that
 would really laugh at that is Tether because they seem to make that every single month.
 But what are some of the other numbers that you're looking at that kind of give you a sense of
 the growth of this ecosystem in terms of Gablecoin, TVL, user growth? I know the numbers have all
 dropped a little bit of last couple months because trading volumes across the entire ecosystem
 have gone down. But what are you seeing? And I'd also ask you maybe to expand this beyond just
 the decks to who's building on the hyper-liquid EVM and how is that growth fitting into your
 broader narrative? Yeah, I would say, look, I don't think we have any secret things we're looking
 at that other people don't. We look at TVL and we look at the open interest and when we look at
 volumes, the most interesting one, I think, most interesting one is when you look at centralized
 exchange volume versus decks volume over time. Clearly, there's a large portion of the customer
 base, the crypto customer base out there that likes trading on DEXs and that's coming through
 when you look at just that mix over time, especially in the last two or three years. So Jeff and the
 team sort of hit the nerve at the right time when you look at their time to hear all that.
 So that's sort of the crypto world. Then the other stuff you look at where the tams are just
 unbelievable are around the real world assets side. So unit is a company we know. They're the
 ones that built spot trading on hyper-liquid. They're the ones doing trade XYZ, where they're
 trading equities on hyper-liquid, right in the US equities and hyper-liquid. And the tams there
 may be the best thing to compare on US equities to options trading in equities.
 You look at some of my Robinhood, a huge percentage of their revenue are like zero-day options
 that get traded on that platform. I personally believe, and this is something I'd be curious,
 Steve, if you agreed with me on this, I personally believe that a perp is a much better structure.
 It's a much better type of contract for almost anybody to trade, certainly retail investors
 than an option. I mean, options are complicated, right? You got to worry about expiration dates
 and a bunch of Greek letters and all sorts of stuff that it's, you know, black sholes models,
 like I know it's doable, but there are a lot of very well-paid people at all the big investment
 banks that know how to trade options, you know, with degrees from MIT. A perp is, you know,
 here's the price I'm getting, you know, here's how the funding rate works. Here's where I get
 liquidated. It's just so much simpler, and it's so much more sort of natural when someone thinks
 about buying, you know, a position like that with leverage. And, you know, the tams on that is
 just, it's just massive. And I think part of all of our job, part of the whole ecosystem job,
 is to figure out ways to sort of grow things like that. Equity is just such an easy example,
 so it's sort of the first one I'm giving. You know, the company Ventuals, I don't know if you
 followed them, Ventuals is set up their own hip three perp markets for pre-IPL companies.
 It's really cool, right? You can trade SpaceX or companies that they expect to go public in the
 future beforehand. And, you know, that's doing the real world, the real service, right? That is
 allowing for price discovery on a company before it does an IPO. You know, as we all just witnessed
 Circle IPO to $31 a share, and then shot up into the 200s. And now it's I think still, you know,
 it's in the 80s, you know, clearly JP Morgan didn't price that thing right. And if there were some
 markets with some real liquidity trading pre IPO, that gave you a real window into that into the
 into the into the price, it would have meant a lot. It would have meant a lot for the for the
 people who are selling shareholders in that deal. That's not insignificant for like the whole system
 we live in. So you know, look, I think that if if all hyper liquid ever does is what they're doing
 now in the crypto side, I think the the sort of way the token is valued is compelling. And, you know,
 there's nothing to be upset about buying at these levels. But there's so many opportunities
 with mass of Tams all over the place in the ecosystem, that that's what really gets us excited.
 And we that's why we think the valuation is just is this super compelling?
 Yeah, I mean, I certainly agree that perbs can be a much more elegant product than options. Although,
 if this is who asked, I mean, sometimes it just comes down to sort of the UX. I mean,
 Robinhood is so good at it, I mean, using them as these. Well, that people don't appreciate how
 complex the type of products are that they're selling and or that they're buying and they like
 the idea of getting those lottery tickets, like perbs. I mean, I guess depends on what kind of
 leverage you want to take out, but but options like you can be like, well, I put down a hundred
 dollars here and if it had to get on this date, it could be paid out. However much I think I think
 people like that idea. And I guess the other point is just also perps. I mean, people like us,
 it seems pretty implicit and easy to understand how they work. But there is an educational barrier
 for other folks to understand like an auto renewing future is and what funding rates are and stuff
 like that. But but they do seem to be a very elegant type of product. I think now is a good
 time to talk about hip three because that is like, that does seem to be really fascinating. I mean,
 if it's in line with like vaxxis and all people can like good AMMs could like launch like like
 liquidity pools and markets for other tokens. And now the same things happen here. Maybe you could
 kind of compare and contrast a little bit that and in this, this also might now be a good time to
 include in the discussion like plans potentially for fiber liquid to come to the US. And if they
 are going to be making markets and these types of products and there are there are US companies
 that are already doing this. I know architect is another one that's doing some of this like,
 how does that fit in with this sort of permissionless listing process? How does that kind of fit in
 with plans to take on the biggest capital market in the world?
 And Bob, you want to make a talk about regulation and what we see coming in clarity?
 Jordan, that's all chime in. Yeah, listen, the I mentioned earlier, the tailwinds. And I think
 stepping back, what's the approach of this administration from a regulatory point of view?
 It is not to focus on regulation of crypto, which sadly the previous administration was kind of
 avoiding or debating and it was more discussion than an action. And what I love about their
 approach is that there should be one regulatory framework for financial services. It's complicated
 enough in our country. So integrate between digital and traditional finance, one set of
 regulations. And I think that's the direction we're going in. And I think the keywords are,
 keep them simple, understandable, workable, and integrated. And I feel so good about that
 direction, because I think if you're an investor, as we are, if you're building on your platforms,
 as the people we invest in are doing, having some vision of where regulation is going and how
 they're going to get there, and having a clear indication they want to keep it simple, straightforward
 and fostering innovation. You can't ask for more than that. And I think it's put, frankly,
 the US in the last 12 months has moved from being a laggard to a leader in digital assets
 and digital asset innovation. I think Europe is beginning to fall back a bit and it's going to
 need to catch up. And we want everyone turbocharged here. We don't want it to be the US ahead of this
 person. We want it to be like a race to be the best. And I think we're moving in that direction
 slowly. And as I said earlier, Steve, in my mind, when we fast forward two or three or four years,
 one, they'll be an integrated regulatory environment for financial services. Two, there'll be more
 of a level playing field of the major economies around the world. And three, there'll be a recognition
 that we're not just trying to add digital capability to banks. What we really want is we want digital
 banks. And that's a big difference. And that's what hyper liquid is teaching us.
 Yeah. And you know, back to your question about hip free. I mean, let's say, you know,
 for argument's sake, someone listening to this right now says, you know what, these guys convinced
 me, you know, perps were a pretty cool product. There's a lot you can do with it. And, you know,
 I want to I'm going to go build something. You know, the thought of building your own purpose change,
 right? The thought of creating an order book and all the programming and the and the and the work
 behind that to do yourself, it is daunting. It's really hard to imagine doing that. But you don't
 have to, because you could, you know, use hyper liquids. They built it already, you could use their
 systems with it as a hip three builder. It takes a half a million hype tokens. So you can't do it
 for free. You have to have some substance have to have some capital. But you know, that is so much
 less both in time and cost than it would take to replicate it. It's just super impressive. And,
 and again, this is just where we are today. People in the ecosystem are talking about hip four.
 That's not officially been announced. I don't think they're, I'm not sure that's that's even
 officially being thought of by the by the foundation. But there's been a some user suggestions on
 on Twitter around hip four, which is basically the, it's sort of, it's sort of the similar thing,
 but with for prediction markets, prediction markets are different, right? Because, you know,
 something can go from a 1% chance to 100% chance very quickly. So you have to have the systems
 be somewhat different than a normal per market. But think how cool that would be, right? Like,
 we have to be a polymarketing calcium right now. They're, you know, both big and both kind of
 dominant, although, you know, they're big relatives to where they came from before, which is zero,
 but they're not, you know, there's still a lot of growth ahead of them. Same concept, right? If
 someone listened to this, wanted to go compete with calcium, you know, holy cow, that's a lot of
 work to build your, your systems, your back end to to be able to do all that stuff. But wait a
 second, what if there's something you could just use that someone else already built to build your
 own front end? Like, wow, that that's pretty exciting. And that's, you know, a really, really,
 you know, great way to bring more competition to these growing markets.
 So speaking of competition, I want to just talk a little more about the market and the
 defensibility of what hyper liquid has has built. I mean, we all were tracking, I think there was a
 chart showing certain, like hyper liquid growing market share vis-a-vis Binance. And but since then
 Binance launched Aster. And I think last month, actually, was the first month where Aster had
 higher volume than the night bill, but even though both were obviously very large. And you pointed
 out that you see a very large TAM that could probably make everyone happy. But like, what lessons do
 you think could be learned from that? And in a world now where every major exchange, the Robinhoods,
 I mean, they're all getting involved in perps in the US around the world, prediction markets,
 everyone very I've spoken with has been very impressed with how hyper liquid was able to bootstrap
 this liquidity and get off the ground with the racial P and et cetera. But how do they keep doing
 that? And how do they defend their turf in a world where, I mean, Binance and Binance is launching
 their own prediction market now to where like people that have these huge user numbers already
 could not quite copycat, but I think you know what I'm saying. Yeah, look, I love Bob's opinion on
 this too. But I would say that a couple of things. One is it's absolutely impossible to have thought
 that there would never be any competition here, right? You look at the success that hyper liquid
 has had over the last three years, particularly over the last year and change. Like, of course,
 doesn't it be competition? And of course, others are going to come in. And generally speaking,
 you know, competition makes everyone better. You know, the idea, you know, no one sitting here
 saying, you know, happened there would be more than one bank in the United States. There's lots
 of banks in the United States. It's still a pretty good business for lots of them. So the idea that
 wouldn't be everybody competition is kind of crazy to think, you know, imitation is the highest
 form of compliment or whatever that term is. And I think like any business, hyper liquid is
 going to have to work hard to stay ahead of the competition and to provide their customers with
 the best experience and all the usual things. It's not like, you know, they have some immortal
 position that they don't, you know, they're not subject to the laws of gravity. Of course,
 they are. We're pretty confident their ability to execute. And I think, frankly, the biggest
 challenge they have, and a lot of people have here is just getting the sort of word outs
 to the outside world, you know, lots of people in crypto know what hyper liquid is. But a lot
 of people don't believe it or not, we're raising this capital. You know, I reached out to someone,
 I'm not going to mention this name, but he's a relatively well known and a very large
 Bitcoin holder. I never heard of never heard of hyper liquid. Maybe it's day ahead. I was in
 to June, July, maybe today has, but, you know, there's a whole world out there of people
 that will find things to do with this, you know, whether it's hit three or whether it's what,
 you know, builder codes, there's lots of stuff up there. And I, you know, if, you know, to me,
 it's more about the, the expanding time than it is. It is fighting with Esther over, you know,
 two percentage points of market share that that's where the future is.
 Listen, we, we, we didn't do all the work from July till, till two days ago to get this publicly
 listed to kind of sit on our laurels and watch the market. The work actually starts now.
 And David and I and our team are in this not just for the medium term, but really for the long term.
 And what we see is we, we built a structure, serious, you know, hype position, serious cash
 position, a plan going forward that this will be the dominant block chain where builders can
 commit and build other exchanges on top of it is David said on CNBC yesterday, there's a lot of
 people running around saying this is going to be on Jane, that's going to be on Jane. This
 traditional business will be on chain. Hyper liquid is actually doing it. You know, we have,
 we have US equities trading in per form on hyper liquid. We're actually doing it. And we're three
 years old. We have over a billion dollars in cash flow. We're just beginning. And this is not only
 the exchange and exchanges of the future. The blockchain is the financial underpinnings of the
 future. And you know, three, four, five years from today, I do believe that the blockchain will be
 the underpinning of financial services writ large. I don't think it will be specialized and sector.
 And you're going to see more people like Bob Diamond and David Sheamus who grew up at Solomon
 Brothers and Morgan Stanley and Barclays who are now really, really comfortable with what's happening
 in the blockchain and stable point and exchanges. So we're on a journey here, Steve. This journey
 is very, very early days. We've done a tremendous amount of work and thinking and have some great
 partners to get what we are today. But man, the work's just starting. You know, we have a really
 good structure with a really strong cash position. So Steve, I just pulled up while we're sitting
 here, a chart total, sorry, top chains by fees in the last 24 hours. And this chart looks pretty
 similar every single day, but hyper liquids at 2.4 million. So Lana is that 670,000 and
 Ethereum's at 425,000. How do we determine the world? What's that from token terminal?
 No, I'm using Artemis, analytics. Artemis. Yeah, I assume they're all similar enough. But the point
 is like, you know, how many people you think really understand that? And that, you know,
 this, that the tokens are trading at levels that are like sub S&P 500, P multiple.
 Yeah, it's actually like that. I think about that.
 When I was at Forbes, I wrote a big story in the magazine called them the $20 billion crypto
 zombies and it pointed out like $20 billion layer ones and looked at their fees as one of the metrics.
 And I mean, some of these companies or projects had made like less than a million dollars a year
 in fees. And it was all trading. Anyway, I know we're close to time, but I just want to
 before we wrap up, I want to look a little bit to the future. I know you file for a billion
 dollar shelf offering. I don't know if any of that has been sold yet or, or like what the plans are,
 especially again, going back to this difficult that climate where it's hard to raise money
 when you're trading at or on that below one. So it's kind of like, what's the plan there to
 continue to accretively accumulate hype? Yeah, look, I would say, you know, first and foremost,
 we are fiduciaries to our shareholders. We are, as you can tell, we're really into hyperlically,
 really into the ecosystem. We are not religious zealots. So we're going to do over time what we
 need to do to accrete our nav per share, create our book value per share, which is what you're
 supposed to be doing when you're a fiduciary to a public company. What does that mean? That means
 when we're trading at premiums, we're going to be thinking about issuing stock, as you said, you
 know, in our S1 that we filed. And in the opposite time, we're trading at discounts, we're going to
 think of the opposite and, you know, again, we're not zealots. We are looking to be good fiduciaries
 to our share. Needless to say, you know, when we're trading at a discount, we're not going to be
 operating the same way as if we're trading at a premium. And before we wrap up, because I know
 we're just about a time, I'd love to just hear any final thoughts from, I guess, me, both of you.
 Listen, I said mine already. I think I think we're just beginning. There's been a lot of hard work
 that's been done since July when we announced this initiative. We hit a critical point of going
 through all the complexity of regulatory approvals, shareholder votes, and NASDAQ approval. And we're
 a public listed company with real scale, a real strong cash position. We have our options open.
 As David said, we're not, we're not in this to, you know, do daily trading kind of thing. We're
 in this to create a listed opportunity for US equity investors to invest in an ecosystem
 that is at the very, very early stages of being one of the dominant institutions in the digital
 space and that's hyper liquid. We're in it for the long run, not the short run. This is an
 investment of our time and our resources. And I think it's very early days. We're very excited
 about it, Steve. As I said at the beginning, and I'll finish with it, we think this is the most
 exciting opportunity in the digital space today. Yeah, look, I would say that if you spend time
 with the hyper liquid people, you know, at their big event in Singapore during token, they had a big
 banner up that said the blockchain to house all the finance. These guys are thinking really big.
 This is a super competent, super hardworking management team, not in crypto terms in any terms.
 I put these guys against anybody, any management team on almost any business around the world.
 And they're thinking big, and there's so many paths to get that big. And again, there's not a
 super high cost to enter this. And there's not a super high cost to be part of his future growth.
 And it just seems to me that, you know, in the future, more and more people are going to know
 what hyper liquid is and they're going to be wondering why they didn't get it sooner.
 All right. Well, with that, yeah, thank you, David and Bob, both for your time.
 Thank you to everybody for watching and listening and be sure to tune in next week for more episodes
 of Bits and Bips the interview and Unchained Live.
