TITLE: Vlad Tenev on Robinhood’s Bold Move into Crypto, DeFi, and Ethereum L2s
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=el5uTcakllM
VIDEO_ID: el5uTcakllM

TRANSCRIPT:
How can you get people in the US excited about putting stocks on blockchains?
 You get these questions like why is it better than traditional stocks that are off-chain?
 You already have things like Robinhood. It's easy. Robinhood has close to 26 million customers.
 You can trade 24/5. Maybe it's not 24/7, but it's pretty close.
 But I think where the possibilities really start to multiply is if you can get these
 illiquid assets and you can construct the mechanism for all of them to be put on chain.
 You get that liquidity in the real-time trading that has been historically reserved only for
 cryptos and public stocks.
 I'm thrilled to be here with Vlad Tenev, the co-founder and CEO of Robinhood, on the defined
 podcast. Vlad, welcome. It's great to have you here. Thanks for having me. And you're probably the
 only person who's ever said my last name correctly. Oh, I'm amazing. I'm proud of that.
 So Robinhood obviously is at the top 10 brokerage. It has over $250 billion in assets under administration.
 And it's going all in on crypto. Yesterday, you made a series of big announcements. I'll
 summarize the three most important to, at least to me and my audience, and then we'll kind of
 dive deeper into them. So you announced tokenized US stocks for European users. You announced tokenized
 private company stocks for European users. And you said you are planning to launch your own
 blockchain. I'll run down the other announcements, taking for Solan ETH, for US users for crypto
 futures, for EU, 2% boost for crypto deposit, credit card rewards, smart exchange routing,
 tax slots, advanced charts, and an AI trading assistant named Cortex. So that was a lot. And in
 this beautiful backdrop. And USDG being approved the first Mika, one of the first Mika compliant
 stablecoins. Too many announcements to keep track of. I know Johan just threw that out there,
 like a little sardine at the end, you know, even though I think it was quite a big announcement.
 Totally. Yeah, that would have been like big on its own. But let's get into the tokenized US
 stocks for Europe. So currently European investors can already get access to US stocks
 to Revolut and other FinTechs and brokers. What's so special about having stocks be tokenized?
 Yeah, I mean, I think that I would think about the EU launch as serving two purposes. Number one,
 actually EU customers wanted exposure to stocks. We've been live in Europe with our crypto business
 for a little bit over a year. And while they love crypto, they want exposure to the US assets as well.
 And we actually sharpen our pencils because we have both these businesses, right? And we figured
 out that the time to market and the speed for launching a blockchain based offering was actually
 significantly faster than going the traditional route. And that got us thinking that in Europe,
 what we have the ability to do is actually demonstrate what Robinhood itself could look
 like built entirely on blockchain technology. So I think phase one from a user standpoint,
 it will look very similar to traditional US stocks. The blockchain technology and the plumbing will
 be under the hood with some minor differences from what typical competitors offer. In particular,
 it's 24/5. So 24 hours a day, five days a week, which not many competitors have been able to figure
 out how to do. Or it starts to get really interesting is when we start plugging it into BitStamp,
 which is when 24/7 trading becomes possible. And at that point, the stock tokens start to behave
 like other cryptos, Bitcoin and Ethereum. And then what I called phase three, which is full
 blockchain non-custodial integration, is when you get all the integrations to DeFi. So you could
 imagine swapping collateralized lending and borrowing and really self custody, which I think would be
 very powerful for stocks because it would untether your stock tokens from any individual brokerage
 or crypto provider. So you explained very colorfully on the top word yesterday how stocks are held
 one-to-one with the token custody by Robinhood. So how does that work legally? Like who actually
 is who has rights to the company? The Robinhood has kind of the holder of shares or the token
 holder? Does the token actually carry rights? Yeah, so the way it works is the token is actually a
 derivative and the underlying is sort of like held by Robinhood. So what the user is getting
 is a derivative that's backed by the real share. Okay. And so when that is
 ported to DeFi, say, and say it's useless collateral in lending markets, what happens if
 that's liquidated? So the intent would be that it would be sort of like a stable coin, right?
 Similar structure where the shares are held in custody and then the only time where a share
 that's custody, the traditional share, would be liquidated is if a corresponding token was actually
 burned. Okay. So yeah, I think my understanding is, and of course, these edge cases, I think
 probably are a little bit more complicated, but if it was liquidated in a DeFi protocol,
 the token itself wouldn't actually be burned. Oh, so, okay, I guess like then it would have to,
 like Robinhood would have to burn it to also like... The mechanism for minting and burning
 tokens would go through Robinhood, at least for the time being. Okay. Okay. Now let's get into the
 private tokenized shares. So this market is like famously opaque and hard to get to. Can you walk
 me through how Robinhood can make this accessible? Yeah. I mean, really, it's the same underlying
 technology that powers the public shares. Now I wrote an op-ed in the Washington Post in the US,
 in January of this year, and the lead was really that you have these companies that aren't going
 public. Some of them have essentially made the decision that they would never go public unless
 they were forced, and they're basically able to raise tens of billions, maybe hundreds of billions
 of dollars from the private markets, and that wasn't possible before. So they have no corporate
 need to go public, but what happens is retail investors are left out of those gains, which keep
 accruing to a smaller and smaller selection of wealthy insiders. The days of being able to invest
 in an IPO like Microsoft and Apple and get a huge appreciation in the public markets
 seem more difficult to come by. I mean, it happens from time to time, but if you want to invest in
 the AI economy as a retail investor, your options are quite limited. And you see gigantic companies
 that are already quite big, Tesla, for example, Nvidia, and that's kind of the exposure to the
 AI industry. So using the same technology that powers tokenized public stocks, we're able to
 tokenize pretty much anything as long as we can acquire the traditional shares. And I think this
 is going to be particularly interesting for the US. So the question we had is, okay,
 how can you get people in the US excited about putting stocks on blockchains? You get these
 questions like, why is it better than traditional stocks that are off chain? You already have
 things like Robinhood. It's easy. Robinhood has close to 26 million customers. You can trade 24/5.
 Maybe it's not 24/7, but it's pretty close. But I think where the possibilities really start to
 multiply is if you can get these illiquid assets, and you can kind of construct the mechanism
 for all of them to be put on chain, and you get that liquidity and the real-time trading that
 has been historically reserved only for cryptos and public stocks. So you would have to,
 Robinhood has access to these OTC markets for private companies, and that's what you're
 unlocking for anyone really. Yeah, that's basically it. And I should clarify that the private shares
 we gave out were essentially a gift. So this is a way to demonstrate the technology. They're not
 yet able to be traded. So customers will have to hold on to them. But actually, since we've
 announced last night, lots of private companies have been reaching out to me and asking,
 yeah, you would think not a lot of private companies would actually be interested in this,
 but I've had reachouts, and I've had people asking me, when can we get our own private stock
 tokenized? So yeah, I think we'd like to open this up much wider, figure out how to allow trading
 in the near future, and also make it available to lots and lots of private companies so that
 people can invest in the most innovative and invaluable private companies. And I think over time,
 what I get really excited about since the initial private stocks will be, the transactions will be
 on a secondary basis. So this is buying stock from existing shareholders of a company. But I think
 over time, this can migrate to being a tool for companies to raise primary capital. So you imagine
 an entrepreneur who's starting a business, and this becomes a mechanism for them to get quick
 and easy capital. So they wouldn't need to go and do the dog and pony show where they pitch
 venture capitalists and go around Sand Hill Road. If they could just go on Robinhood or any other
 platform really, push a button and maybe submit some information about what their business is
 and what their venture is. And they get immediate access to a global pool of investors that want to
 back in and get the exposure to that new startup technology. I think if we can deliver that,
 we'll just have more startups. The costs and the friction to creating startups will dramatically
 decrease. I was an entrepreneur early stage, and you have to do two very difficult things,
 simultaneously. One is build a product that people want, take it to market. You also have
 to fund the business. And early stage funding the business takes a lot of time. So you almost
 have these like two full time jobs that you have to simultaneously do. So I think if we make that
 easier, we'll have more startups. That'd be really interesting to have a primary market on Robinhood.
 Don't you envision this as startups racing via both equity and tokens?
 Yeah, I mean, I think that it's a good question. There are existing mechanisms where
 startups can issue tokens. They can have ICOs. Historically, that has been a completely separate
 process from actually raising a normal fundraising round. And you've had to make sure in the U.S.
 at least that U.S. persons don't participate in those. It's typically been used only for
 largely by it's accredited. It's crypto companies have been doing this for like token launches.
 But what I'm envisioning is these processes merge somewhat. So if you want to go the crypto
 native token route, you could. But also you could just have something like a traditional financing and
 traditional shares, traditional documentation, you're dealing with the same lawyers. And we can
 just be a utility that helps tokenize those shares. Super interesting. Okay, before going to deep
 there, let's switch to the other big announcement and want to cover your own chain. So this will be,
 as I understand, a theorem layer two on arbitrum, right? It's going to be similar to
 the arbitrum chain, but it's not going to be a roll up on arbitrum. So it's a layer two.
 So it's it's own separate layer two using arbitrum technology, exactly. And it'll it'll launched
 directly like that. Or will you start as a roll up in in arbitrum? Well, at first the stock tokens
 are on arbitrum. But yeah, it'll it'll begin as the intent is for it to begin as a layer two.
 Yeah, immediately upon launch. Wow, that's that's huge. What if sending crypto felt more human?
 Pulse just launched red packets, a new way to give tokens with meaning. It's gasless,
 gamified, and claimable inside group chats only. Think air drops meet social cues on chain.
 Backed by smart wallet tech and live across major L2s, red packets turned communities into
 microeconomies of gratitude and growth. No seed phrases, no friction, just connection with value.
 Check it out at pulse dot social. Can you can you go through why you you went with both arbitrum
 instead of other Ethereum layer twos and what you went with Ethereum instead of other layer ones.
 Yeah, I think that at the end of the day, what it came down to was I don't think there was a
 layer two out there that had the same specific goals as ours. So what we want to do is build
 the first chain that's optimized for real world assets. So we have stocks. Eventually,
 you can imagine all things that you can find on Robinhood in the US. Perhaps we find a way to get
 options there futures. It's funny. Tokenize futures when you have perpetual futures. So it's
 going to go both ways. Tokenize traditional instruments and then traditional versions of
 the native crypto assets as well. So I think there will be a lot of convergence.
 But yeah, we would like to tokenize a wide range of real world assets. I think that's how we can
 distinguish ourselves. I talked to a lot of these chain developers and they all have some variant
 of our chain is the best chain for de-gens. And I think there's enough chains for de-gens out there.
 I think that market is fully served. But I don't think there's anyone building
 chains that are optimized for real world assets. And you think and you thought that
 arbitrum was the best place or like that technology was the best to do that.
 Well, the great thing about it is we have control over the chain. We can we can develop it and make
 customizations as necessary. And so we thought that that was a nice benefit because we don't want to
 be dependent on any third party for when we need something. So if we have the ability to have control
 over the development of the chain, of course, while maintaining decentralization, that was very
 attractive for us. Yeah. And a lot of the other layer ones don't have as robust of an ecosystem for
 having your own chain, having your own layer two on top. Okay. So on the theorem side, it was the
 ecosystem that really the ecosystem, the ability to create a layer two and have control over
 how how everything works. And also the fact that interoperability is important to us. And
 there's a lot of assets already on the Ethereum chain. And there's a significant network effect.
 And, you know, we, I think over time, we'd like these tokens to be on all chains. So it's really
 where is there going to be a first class experience where perhaps, you know, you'll get the early
 features first, and you'll get great support. So we will have the chain, we have the wallet as well,
 Robinhood wallet, which we're, we're going to build a really, really nice experience for the
 tokens. And, you know, since it's crypto, customers will be able to switch to another wallet. And
 over time, I'm sure there'll be robust bridges and interoperability. And people will be able to
 move their tokens to all sorts of chains. But at least the parts that we have control over,
 we can ensure that there's a first class experience. Perfect. Are you, are you planning on having
 your own token on the chain? No plans at this point. I mean, we haven't thought much about it.
 The focus has really been on how to make sure stock tokens work really, really nicely.
 I wouldn't be opposed to it. I mean, if there's some specific problem that that would help us
 solve, I think we would look at it, but we're no, no imminent plans, I should say.
 What, what about like having your own chain improves, you think, just like overall experience
 for your users? Yeah, that's a good question. I think right now for what we've offered, I mean,
 the, the stock tokens are available on arbitrum. You saw the transactions are quite fast.
 But I think there's going to be a lot of new things that we'll have to unlock in particular
 DeFi swapping. If we get into the DeFi stuff, if we want to offer some products that we also have
 to enable, you know, KYC or some of these, some of these more unique features than having,
 having our own chain, I think would be, would be important.
 And so for, for the, going back to the US, the US token stocks in Europe and
 Perpetuals went on, well, the token is private market, but those are all available in, in Europe.
 But what, from the regulatory side in the US, are you expecting before you can roll those out in the US?
 Yeah, actually, since we've rolled this out, I think there has been some excitement from,
 from policymakers in the US, they saw the launch over here. And I think one of the goals was also
 to show what's possible if, you know, we, we unleash crypto technology and let it fully merge
 with traditional financial services. I think we've been talking about this in crypto for quite a while,
 but there hasn't been too much in the way of actual product that people can use in a,
 in a nice form. So I, I think that's compelling. If you can actually see real product, you know,
 Europeans enjoying access to US stocks, us making it very easy to use. And really with an experience
 that has no compromises. Then, then I think, you know, the US will, will follow along quite quickly.
 We've already had been having a lot of conversations on tokenization. And it's something that we believe
 the SEC has the mandate and the power to do without additional legislation by Congress.
 And there is a crypto task force at the SEC. They had a tokenization roundtable,
 Johan, our crypto GM was actually a participant in that. So I think they're excited about tokenization.
 They'd like to make it happen. The problem, of course, is, you know, US is a mature market.
 And we have infrastructure that's already there. So you have two problems with that.
 One is, you know, the incentive to upgrade is perhaps less big than in a market that has
 nothing. It's sort of like how China went from no trains to high speed rail. They, they sort of
 went to the technology frontier or how, you know, in the US, we, we went gradually to mobile and
 broadband. But in some of these developing countries, they're just putting up the fastest,
 most capable broadband and mobile towers possible because they can just get the new thing.
 And in the US, we've got medium speed rail. And maybe it's not as good as high speed rail,
 but the delta in cost to upgrade it is probably not worth the incremental benefit. So I think you
 have that to some degree with the traditional financial system. You also have a lot of stakeholders
 that have to be satisfied. And, you know, these stakeholders are worried. If stocks go on block
 chains, what's going to happen to my business? I have a pretty big business here. I employ thousands
 of people that rely on it being done this this other way. So I think you're seeing some of that
 with stablecoin as well. You know, there's the banks are a little bit nervous about it, as you can
 imagine. And I think that's the trap of being at the frontier for some period of time. You know,
 there's, there's entrenched interests. It's difficult to navigate. And that, that keeps you from,
 if you're not careful, that can keep you from innovating. But you're, you're not worried about,
 about those same issues, because you also have, you know, all your infrastructure in the US is
 geared for traditional stocks. But you're okay with making that move. Yeah, we're okay with that,
 because I think that if there's better infrastructure, then I think people will have to embrace it.
 I'm very interested in being at the, at the frontier technologically. I mean, we were the first that
 really popularized investing on a mobile device. And that to some degree was another example of
 this, right? There were entrenched companies that relied, that had built out web interfaces. So you
 can trade tethered to your desk. And they didn't really want to, they didn't really want a world
 where people were trading on their phones to exist, threaten the status quo. And that was an
 opportunity for us to come in. So besides just the building an exciting future, I think there's a
 real risk to getting stuck with what's working now. Because if we don't, if we don't embrace it,
 someone else is going to figure it out, right? And we don't want them to eat our lunch. We'd
 like to eat our own lunch. Totally. Okay. So that, that took a good segue to what I wanted to ask
 next, which is you're speaking of like being first to these innovations. You are the first major
 fintech to announce that you're building your own public blockchain. I'd like to understand how
 this kind of, all these crypto announcements fit into the longer term bigger vision for Robinhood.
 Yeah. Yeah, that's a great question. So we had an investor day in New York actually last December,
 where I talked through the three arcs behind Robinhood. And you can imagine these arcs as being active
 for a period of time and kind of building up off of each other. So we have our one year arc,
 which is being number one in the active trader market. You know, active trainings are bread and
 butter. We innovated a lot there. We have some of the lowest pricing in the industry across all
 traded assets. So we should be number one in market share across all assets that we trade,
 including crypto, equities and options in the US futures as well. So, and I think we're doing
 very well there, but not everyone actively trades. And so the ultimate size of that market is
 relatively small. You know, it's probably tens of billions in annual revenue, maybe hundreds of
 billions, but still much smaller than the other longer term arcs. Then we have our, our, our sort
 of medium term arc. I call it our five year arc, although these numbers are approximate. And that
 is being number one in wallet share for the next generation. So we want to go beyond trading to
 being the place where you keep all of your money, your assets, and the platform that you process all
 of your financial transactions through. That's where credit card business comes in, retirement,
 advisory in the US, a recent acquisition of trade PMR, which is a human advisor platform. So it's,
 it's really, how can I put my paycheck into Robinhood? How can I have my savings there,
 my banking, do all my spending, and then have all of my investing ranging from, you know, buying
 some stock all the way through to family office style private wealth management. That's the goal.
 And so you should never actually have to take money out of Robinhood to just be a place where you
 custody your assets, you put money in and we help you with everything else. And now building off
 these first two arcs, we have our long term arc, which I call number one global financial ecosystem.
 And that's taking what we're doing for the US and for retail and expanding it across
 two linearly independent vectors. It's a math term. One is from US only to fully global. And the other
 is from retail only to business and institutional. And so to answer your question, that third arc,
 that long term arc, we actually expect that to be the majority of the business in a period of
 roughly 10 years. We think that's how long it's going to take for international or at least
 x US to comprise half of our half of our revenue. And also how long it'll take for business and
 institutional to surpass retail consumer. And I think the chain plays into both of those. You
 know, blockchain technology is global by default. So that's a path to expanding internationally.
 It's also a path to onboarding developers, you know, many of whom were in the audience there.
 And institutions. I think that as the institutions see the power of this technology,
 they're already very interested. We'll make it easy to integrate and we can get all of them to
 be using these real world assets on chain. Okay, so you're thinking of the Robinhood chain
 as an enabler for kind of your three art vision. Yeah, I think that it could be an
 accelerant to both global expansion and also institutional and developer adoption.
 Over time, how much of like Robinhood volume or, you know, whatever kind of metric is most relevant,
 do you think will happen on your chain? I think over time, traditional financial services and
 crypto will fully merge. So I think there won't be a distinction. Now this may take a little bit
 of time, but I don't think there will be a distinction between traditional volume and
 our crypto volume. I think more and more will be on chain. And, you know, maybe at some point,
 the entire US equities system will go on chain. It will be powered by technology. I don't know
 if it'll all necessarily be on our chain or if it'll be some consortium or maybe it will be our
 chain, but you know, it gets decentralized to a degree where everyone runs their own sequencers.
 But I think the end state of this is that public blockchain technology powers
 a significant portion of the critical financial infrastructure in the US in the same way that
 it used to all run on mainframe, right? And mainframe then got replaced by on-premise data centers.
 And now they're trying to figure out how to go on cloud. The cloud transition hasn't
 fully finished yet, but blockchain sort of the next in line after that. It's more and more of
 the business logic now is being handled by public infrastructure. So, okay, so you kind of answered
 another question I had for you that, you know, I think there's a question among
 traditional finance and even people in FinTech about whether crypto will,
 like how big crypto will actually be? Will it remain a niche asset class within finance
 or will it actually become the backbone for financial activity and the settlement layer
 for all assets in the future? Because as you mentioned, you already have trillions of dollars
 in this old system that would have to migrate onto this new system. So, it's like a huge
 undertaking. How do you see that transition happening? Like, do you think eventually like
 all new assets will be issued on chain, but will still have this kind of old financial system running?
 Or do you see like actually migrating to blockchain? Yeah, I mean, if you think about
 what happens right now with a company being formed in the US, for instance,
 you know, a company has a seed stage financing and there's formation documents and financing
 documents which are being passed back and forth by lawyers essentially. And then you have your cap
 table, which is usually managed by, you know, some software, CARTA, I think, is the dominant
 player there. And then when you go public, there's a migration process, right? It goes from CARTA
 to whoever accussities your stock and manages the employee stock purchase plans and the stock
 rewards for public companies. So it's already a little bit of a mess and there's migrations
 involved throughout. I think the first instance of this will be blockchain coming in there as
 sort of an adjunct and much of these pieces being the same. Although you see them kind of
 being optimized independently by different forces, you've got AI in there, you've got, you know,
 standardized documents and legal processes. There's a lot of folks in CARTA themselves as well
 innovating on the on the cap table side. So I think there will be reconfigurations and transitions
 across the board issuing natively on the blockchain. I think is just another form of this process,
 like you're still dealing with lawyers. There's still paper documents. I don't know if anyone
 is actually just writing code and distributing tokens at any significant scale without some of
 these other components. So I don't actually anticipate that will change unless other forces sort of
 streamline that over time. So yeah, gradually it should just be an unorganic kind of natural process
 for for blockchain to just be, you know, a part of the progression of being in capital markets.
 Yeah, I mean, if you think about what a physical, traditional share is, there's not like a thing
 that you can hold, you know, we're kind of past the days where there are stock certificates and
 that was a share. Even that was a representation of a legal contract that, you know, is somewhere
 in in the ether, right? So the token's just the evolution of that.
 The PR Genius is a top crypto PR and growth marketing agency, helping brands globally with
 expert PR and strategic growth marketing. They've worked with 300 plus projects like movement labs
 and IO.net. Unlike traditional agencies, they charge only on performance. Their services include
 earned PR opportunities and marketing services to help boost wallet holders and organic ex followers.
 Learn more at www.prgenius.com. So I think among kind of the like fintech ecosystem,
 probably the only company that is similar to your vision is Coinbase.
 Do you view them as a competitor and how do you think both company visions differ?
 Yeah, I mean, I think in some sense, all companies in our space collaborate in some ways and compete
 in others. I mean, you look at the big banks, for example, all the big banks are trying to serve
 all their customers' financial needs, not just checking and savings accounts, but also credit
 cards, investing products. But, you know, Robinhood has bank accounts. We're partnering with many of
 them. So I think the actual answer is somewhat complicated. Like we compete for market share
 in some ways, but we also have opportunities to partner. And at this point, we're both still
 a fraction of the total assets that are out there. You know, we've got hundreds of billions of assets.
 I think they have a similar scale, but you look at how many assets are just going to be transferred
 from baby boomers and silent generation down to Gen X and millennials over the next few decades.
 The number is something like 124 trillion. So yeah, I think the real opportunity is making
 sure that Robinhood has a good chunk of those. So we're capable of serving that. And we continue
 to build great products and roll them out to customers, deliver them over time. I really try
 not to spend too much time thinking about what competitors are doing. I think it tends to
 take you away from the customer and get you into this like competitive benchmarking
 mode of running your business, where you're just kind of looking at what everyone else is doing,
 trying to see what to copy. And you're not really thinking critically from first principles.
 In DeFi, we love to talk about the DeFi mullet. Have you heard of that term?
 You mean like this one? Yes, your gentleman's mullet.
 So I think Robinhood can be kind of the perfect embodiment of that. It's like the idea that
 DeFi is consumed with kind of a slick familiar front end with like a mainstream app like Robinhood,
 but on the back end, it's all DeFi. And you're able to offer not just token swaps and trading,
 but more sophisticated DeFi operations like landing and borrowing. Is that something that you
 envisioned? That's appealing to me. So I particularly am a fan of mullets, as you can imagine.
 The problem is most people are not. I think if you went to a person on the street and you're like,
 what do you think of your financial app being in the form of a mullet? I don't think they'd be
 very, very happy. Maybe you'll need a different marketing term. Yeah, I think we have to move
 away from this whole mullet thing. So it might be hindering mass adoption. Okay.
 Okay, but about the actual, the only hairstyle. What do you think about offering DeFi products?
 I'm pro. Yeah, I'm happy to offer DeFi products. I mean, we have our wallet. I think the real
 question is, can you make it easy to use in lower friction than the alternatives? And I think we're
 about to find out that it is possible to do so. The friction for traditional financial services is
 actually quite high in a lot of cases. And DeFi streamlines that. It introduces a new layer friction
 that is not there in traditional finance, which is sort of like key management and cross asset
 bridging and sort of like the whole gas token thing, which I think there's good solutions to
 remove. So I view it as it's just that the technology and the user experience has not been figured out
 yet. But that's one thing we really care about. Actually, can we streamline it? Can we do a lot
 of work on the user experience to make it understandable? And sometimes that's sort of like
 dismissed as front end innovation, like, Oh, that that's very easy. You know, that's it's not real
 technology. But yeah, it can be quite complex. And we spend a lot of time working on these things
 and trying to improve them. No, definitely key. I mean, from using DeFi, I can definitely tell
 you front end innovation is where it's at. Yeah, I mean, when we introduced our wallet, a Robinhood
 wallet, one of the big things was gasless swapping. So I think the problem was the gasless swapping
 was on polygon. And you know, people wanted to see it across everywhere. So we've expanded it
 over time. But yeah, that that was at the time the very bleeding edge. You know, nobody had spent
 much time trying to figure out how to get gasless swapping to work. And we were able to work with
 some some of our counter parties to make that happen. So it'll be it'll be things like that. And
 you'd be surprised a lot of folks in crypto don't really talk to customers that much. They're just
 talking they're going to conferences and speaking to other developers. Yeah, no, I'm not surprised.
 And so they hadn't really heard that this was a problem. They're just like, why is my protocol?
 Why does my protocol stop growing when I stop giving rewards? Well, you know, if you if you
 stop giving rewards, you get the you the people that are really, really motivated, maybe a little
 bit less motivated. So you actually have to make the thing work pretty well. Exactly. Yeah, so I
 mean, if people are already going to be using your token, I stocks as collateral in Ave, for example,
 maybe it'll just at some point, it'll make sense for you to just offer people to do that through
 ramen hood directly. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. And I think also there's benefits to I mean,
 some things that are very easy with DeFi swapping between different assets, you can go from, you know,
 wrapped Bitcoin to a stock token. And I think particularly in the EU, I know there's tax benefits
 to doing those things. So those are things that might be very difficult for us to do in the
 traditional sense, but become easier with with DeFi. To start wrapping up, I would love to just
 understand your motivation behind all these changes. What do you think is there was there
 something about your upbringing or your career? Or why do you think is it that has made you such a
 strong believer in crypto? I mean, I think that it's just there's two technological shifts that
 affect our industry. And you know, we're in the center of both of them crypto and AI. And
 you know, I grew up as a I wanted to be a scientist, I became interested in theoretical physics
 and mathematics. And really what motivated me is creating new things, new theories.
 I'm not as motivated by improving upon things incrementally, even though that's very, very
 valuable. So for me personally, I like new things and just like figuring things out. And I think
 in the realm of business, that's just working on the frontier technologies, crypto and AI.
 So just your drive to innovate is what's behind all of this move to crypto.
 I think so. Yeah. Yeah, I think the drive to innovate and to work on new things,
 new things that challenge the status quo and unlock possibilities that just didn't exist before.
 I think that's ultimately what drives progress. So if we can be a part of that,
 I think that not only helps us stay relevant as a company, but also just pushes the entire
 frontier forward. I think it's important to understand because, you know, like right now crypto is
 starting to be trendy again. And I think we'll get into a phase where we'll see lots of announcements
 from many different big companies who are, you know, like launching crypto experiments on products.
 But I think it's those products that come from companies where like leadership is actually
 emotionally kind of invested, actually believes in the technology or the ones that are going to
 succeed. So I think it's key that, you know, you actually believe in this technology. And
 I think that's a huge step to see rambi how it's kind of crypto initiatives actually take off and
 not remain kind of like science experiments within the company. Yeah, I think believing the
 technology in the technology is an interesting question because it has with it almost a
 religious element. Yeah, yeah, there's right. But yeah, I think I think my
 my belief in it is more on a practical level. Like if it can solve real customer problems
 and it can do it at a lower cost and with a nicer experience than the alternative,
 then I believe in the technology. But you know, if something else comes along that solves it 100
 times better. And, you know, with 100 times better user experience. And everyone coalesces on
 calling it something other than crypto, then I would believe in that as well. Because at the end
 of the day, the difference between things that don't work and things that work very, very well
 is not so much the belief in the technology. It's it's maybe a belief in yourself that you can
 iterate your way to something that works. But it's it's just the understanding that you have to have
 real customers paying real money in a way that sustains the the future development of the product.
 That's what it comes down to. So I think there's a lot of people that believe that haven't been
 able to figure that out. And also a lot of people that maybe just like have built great businesses
 that perhaps say they believe but and maybe over time they believe but at the first they they saw
 an amazing business opportunity. That I think that's a great place to to wrap up.
 It's, you know, not just about believing religiously but also just seeing obviously how practically
 the technology can help your users. And so, you know, we'll see how all all these crypto
 initiatives will start helping Robinhood users. So thank you so much for joining me.
 Thanks for your time. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you for joining us here in the French Riviera.
 Oh, my absolute pleasure.
