TITLE: Why the Draft Market Structure Bill Creates Problems for DeFi - DEX in the City
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=edQ9DR4FHYk
VIDEO_ID: edQ9DR4FHYk

TRANSCRIPT:
There's just a fundamental misunderstanding
 of what DeFi is, what a protocol is,
 who's involved, who has, to your point,
 what is control, what's not control.
 And it's really been tough to try to educate them
 to fully understand it.
 - At what point does ongoing judgment turn rule-based
 compliance or rule-based risk management into human control?
 And that's what I can't quite figure out in this bill.
 It's actually very ambiguous to me
 that even if you do sanction screening
 or some other compliance measure
 through a fully automated mechanism,
 you could still be exercising control.
 - Hi all and welcome to DeX in the city
 where the wallets are cold and the takes are hot.
 First we have Jesse, web three prosecutor turned,
 web three protector at Rivet Capital.
 - Hi guys, what a morning.
 - And we've been seeing it from the SEC to web three.
 - Hey everyone.
 - And I'm your host, Katherine, KK,
 fluent in trad fine and conversing in deep tech
 over at stark wearer.
 So first, before we get going, remember we're lawyers
 but we're not your lawyers.
 So nothing you hear on DeX in the city
 is legal or financial advice.
 It doesn't create an attorney-client relationship
 and for the fine print, as always,
 check unchainedcrypto.com.
 Today we have a jam-packed episode as always.
 I know, I know.
 You want to hear about crypto market structure legislation.
 The big news is a new markup on that bill
 dropped late last night.
 We're gonna explain what that means.
 And we have a very special guest joining us
 a little later in the program,
 Summer Mercinger, CEO of the Blockchain Association,
 one of the premier trade organizations for crypto in DC.
 We are going to give you all of the alpha
 and the intel on that markup
 and what that means for you as builders, lawyers,
 individuals trading or interested in crypto.
 But I want to start with something else.
 So stay with us.
 We are gonna shift to that topic then.
 For the next few minutes,
 we wanted to raise the news yesterday
 that Tether actually froze 182 million in USDT tied
 to five Tron addresses.
 So this was also big news.
 Somewhat overshadowed by crypto market structure.
 But you guys, this is Tether.
 For a while, Tether was kind of the bad guy
 in the stablecoin mix.
 They've changed a lot.
 It follows their voluntary wallet freezing policy
 introduced in, we believe December 23
 to align with treasury and OFAC sanctions compliance.
 And I think the major thing we want to discuss
 is this freeze forces at question,
 the industry keeps dodging.
 When we ask for regulation,
 what power are we agreeing to trade away
 and who gets to wield it in the meantime?
 Jesse, tell us more about this and why it matters.
 - Gotta think about this so much.
 So I'm so glad you framed it that way.
 But you gave a framing on what happened
 with the Tether freeze.
 And Tether has frozen before,
 so has circle and lots of other entities.
 So that is not the new story.
 But it is a really huge amount,
 which I think is worth commenting on here,
 which is over $180 million on Tron.
 And what's going on with the Tether freeze matters today
 on market structure day,
 but also just generally for the crypto industry
 because freezing is no longer an edge case,
 it's becoming a design assumption that's built in
 and it's becoming to be baked into legislation
 like Genius and now sections of the newest draft structure,
 market structure bill, which we'll talk about.
 So in other words,
 issue or level control already exists.
 And what I think is really, really concerning
 and we should be talking about is that
 most people don't understand it.
 They don't understand how, when, and why,
 and who gets to control your money.
 But before we get into that sort of debate,
 let's be really precise about what happened.
 So we use the words freeze,
 but that's very different than seizure.
 And I wanna make sure that we don't use them
 interchangeably like many do,
 because they are not the same thing.
 A seizure, which we're not talking about here,
 but has happened a lot in the past,
 is a court authorized action.
 So it's the government actually taking control of assets.
 That can be subject to a seizure warrant,
 which is like a search warrant under the Fourth Amendment.
 But a freeze is gonna be different.
 So that's issuer level control, like what happened here.
 The funds are still in chain, but they just can't move.
 So it doesn't matter how many jumps you are
 from the tether being issued or the USDT being issued,
 you can still programably be frozen in your wallet, right?
 That's very new.
 For enforcement, it's very new for issuers.
 So the freeze can happen after a court order.
 So it can be like a search or seizure warrant
 that says you have to freeze, but frequently it's earlier.
 So in response to a request from law enforcement,
 which sounds like what happened here
 because there is reporting it's tied to law enforcement,
 sanctions exposure, or just risk analysis.
 So let's be clear, like banks do this too.
 This isn't just crypto.
 What's different here is that it can be outside of the,
 what you think to be control,
 I'm putting quotes up for people not watching the video,
 but like it can be outside that what you thought
 was the control of tether because you're on Tron,
 you're like in your own wallet,
 you're in a different jurisdiction,
 but in fact, they can actually impact your funds.
 So now that we have the explainers out of the way,
 let's acknowledge why this all makes us a bit uneasy.
 A private company is immobilizing your money
 before a court has spoken
 and they can do so anywhere in the world.
 Sort of the opposite of what we talk about in crypto
 and what crypto has been building, right?
 Isn't that sort of the whole point
 of a lot of what we're building here?
 So I guess it just to get back to what you were saying,
 KK is like, when we ask for regulation,
 what trade offs are we actually making?
 I'm not saying the trade offs aren't worth it.
 I'm saying that I don't know if people fully understand them
 and are considering them when we talk about
 how we want to build our regulation.
 So freezing exists because many of the worst actors
 in crypto will never show up in the US courtroom.
 You can't reach the person, but you can reach the money.
 I did this all the time.
 So I'm not hating on freezing under the right circumstances
 and we did it with court permission,
 but we had child pornography cases where Bitcoin
 and other sort of forms of tokens were involved
 that don't necessarily exist or any more.
 And we were able to freeze them.
 More importantly, it happens all the time for DPRK,
 North Korea cases, Iranian cases, Hamas cases.
 That was a big part of the Hamas case I worked on.
 Well, with these new bills,
 issue level freezes are moving just from practice.
 That happens, you know,
 this issuer decides to do it here and maybe not here,
 but rather a policy.
 But I want to like pause and take a second
 to give a little credit to the bills
 because it's not just saying everyone has to do this,
 but rather the market structure draft
 that we got late, late last night,
 why we all look exhausted or I look exhausted
 is that the draft doesn't invent the power.
 It's actually trying to discipline it a little bit,
 like for better or for worse,
 it's trying to put rules around it
 rather than just saying, okay, well,
 Tethers deciding to freeze in this circumstance
 while circle's doing in a different circumstance, et cetera.
 But what we need to pay attention here
 is like what kind of control are we codifying in these bills?
 And maybe this part of the bill isn't getting
 as much attention because, you know,
 it's not the things that we're going to talk about later,
 like the DeFi portion of the bill
 or the stablecoin interest or many other aspects
 that crypto Twitter are talking about this morning.
 And we will too, 'cause they are important,
 but I just don't want us all to overlook it
 because we as crypto users ultimately bear the consequences
 of how this is exercised and when,
 and we need to make sure we understand
 what the trade-offs are and are we okay with them?
 - Jessie, first, I need to say you look great.
 You do not look tired, okay?
 And I hate when people say you look tired.
 - Yes, I mean, we have physical jobs, we work hard.
 Second, I want to move on to crypto market structure,
 but before I do, I want to highlight something really important
 and that is the power of economic sanctions more generally.
 It's interesting, like, you know,
 I spent years in private practice defending offshore entities,
 sometimes in sanctions related allegations.
 And in many ways, OFAC has more power.
 And you know, obviously this is up for debate
 that any other US regulator,
 including the Department of Justice,
 because you have an offshore entity
 and they get indicted by DOJ.
 It's like, okay, fine.
 Maybe I'm in a non-extradition jurisdiction.
 Maybe I just, you know, stop my executives
 from going to the United States.
 But OFAC and economic sanctions effectively cut off
 individuals or entities from anything touching the US dollar,
 which if you know anything about financial services
 and crypto to some degree still,
 everything revolves around those wires that process,
 that engagement with kind of the US dollar, frankly.
 So the fact that Tether is doing this
 and one of the, when the drivers of this kind of freezer
 is their policy that they change to adhere
 to kind of sanctions and AML, it's powerful.
 And it means that you're always going to have projects
 crypto or tradfi where first and foremost,
 they consider how they ensure that they don't end up
 on the wrong side of this.
 So that just cannot be understated.
 Shifting to market structure actually really quick,
 really quick departure before we get into the meat of things.
 We're going to have summer on later.
 So I think now is actually a perfect time
 to very briefly call out our crypto good news
 and then we're going to completely shift
 because I don't want to forget this
 and we're going to run out of time at the end.
 So the one quick shout out I wanted to do on crypto
 good news before we shift to market structure
 is the giving block.
 So guys, I don't know if you've been asked about this.
 It's kind of like you're a lawyer at the family reunion
 and everyone asks you about their will
 and you're like, I have no idea what you're talking about.
 I have actually informally advised a number of 501c3s
 that have nothing to do with crypto
 that want to start accepting crypto donations.
 And in certain cases, I have recommended
 that they explore the giving block
 and it's super cool it acts as a bridge
 between nonprofits and crypto donors.
 It's actually a platform.
 It helps establish organizations accept and process
 crypto in a way that fits into their existing workflows.
 I think that's a beautiful thing.
 We need more things that are going to facilitate crypto
 and normies talking to each other
 and working with each other.
 So quick shout out to the giving block.
 - Yay.
 - Woo, okay.
 On to crypto market structure, which is fantastic
 but also complicated.
 It's not a straightforwardness for no good news.
 So I want to hand this over to Bee
 who has really been at the front lines
 of crypto policy on a number of fronts.
 But before I do, I want to remind everyone
 how a bill becomes a law.
 It's introduced.
 It is referred and reviewed by committees.
 There is a floor debate and a vote in both chambers.
 There is a conference committee
 that works out of compromise
 if there's different versions.
 There's presidential action.
 We're all familiar with that.
 He can sign it.
 He can veto it.
 And then the law is implemented.
 So where are we with a markup
 and what does actually a markup need?
 It actually means that the bill is formerly debated,
 amended, reviewed by the committee
 before it can move forward in the lawmaking process.
 And the reason this is important
 is if the markup goes badly, the bill can die.
 The markup is also kind of in many ways the last chance
 to make and consider any changes to the bill.
 So the big news this week was we were supposed to have
 both a financial services committee markup
 and an agriculture to separate committee markups.
 On Jan 15th, AG has punted into later in the month,
 financial services is moving forward.
 And now we're all looking at this revised bill.
 Some parts of crypto are very happy with parts of it.
 Other parts are very upset.
 One big, big point of contention is defy the, tell us more.
 - Yeah, so there's a lot of new stuff in this bill.
 But I wanted to focus on defy in particular
 just because there's a lot of new stuff
 in that section in particular.
 And it's just been one of the most hotly debated parts
 of the bill.
 So I'll just start out by saying or acknowledging
 that like Congress has a really hard job, right?
 There's I think always this tension
 between what you enshrine into the statute
 and what you leave to regulators to deal with
 or what you just don't enforce or don't regulate at all, right?
 And I think it's really hard to strike the right balance,
 especially when you're talking about a technology
 that is very new and also still evolving sometimes quickly, right?
 So I think, you know, they have a very hard job
 and nowhere is that more like acute to me
 than in the defy section.
 So again, we've all had very limited time
 to review the new language,
 but I did want to give some initial thoughts
 just on what I'm seeing.
 So at a high level,
 the draft is trying to draw a bright line
 between decentralized protocols and infrastructure
 and protocols or parties where, you know,
 there's some sort of control over trading,
 execution, custody, or access.
 And that side would potentially be regulated
 as brokers, exchanges,
 or some sort of regulated financial intermediary.
 So all of it really comes down to this concept of control.
 But I think the difficulty here,
 and it's something that, you know,
 we as crypto lawyers have been thinking about for years,
 this concept of control is actually really hard to define, right?
 So the way that the current language tries to define it
 is, I would say like in three different ways.
 One is, is there discretion over trading or execution, right?
 So do you route trades, do you match counter parties?
 Do you decide execution timing?
 Do you modify prices or priority?
 Do you intervene in execution outside of like pre-coded rules?
 Another way they define control is,
 do you have unilateral authority to do things
 like alter issuance or distribution parameters
 to change execution logic,
 to restrict access to the protocol?
 That's a really important one that we'll come back to.
 Or to pause?
 Sorry to interrupt, but one important thing about this,
 and you can confirm your thoughts
 as you're talking about control,
 is one of the things that I see in this bill
 is that they're effectively leaving this decision on control
 and what is DeFi treasury, which is very scary to me.
 Like I think as well.
 Yeah, well, so actually, I think, Jesse,
 do you wanna talk about that later?
 'Cause I think you've been following that part of the bill
 a lot more closely.
 We should definitely come back to that
 'cause that's a really important part of it.
 And that's obviously that concept
 is very offensive to DeFi journalists.
 Yes, yeah, it's a lot and it's concerning.
 But Jesse, why don't you cover that later?
 I'll just, I'll finish kind of explaining how I read
 how it defines control more generally.
 So the other thing it says is,
 if you can do something like pause or restart trading,
 if you have discretion to do that,
 that could potentially fall under the standard of control.
 And then the third category is about user interfaces
 or front-ends, right? So like websites or apps
 that allow you to access the DeFi protocol.
 And the question there is, can you restrict who can trade?
 Do you exercise discretion over which assets
 or pools or strategies that users can have access to?
 Can you intervene in execution and do you route orders
 or somehow like materially modify the outcome, right?
 So I have a few thoughts on this.
 First is a substantive one,
 which is I'm concerned that there are a lot of ways
 that this control standard could be interpreted
 to sweep in, in my opinion, pretty much all real-world DeFi
 as it exists today.
 And I know that's like a really spicy take,
 but I think the language is too broad and a little too.
 - And other changes, like L2, L2, that's what I want.
 - Yeah, totally.
 So yeah, so I'll just, I'll give a few examples.
 And I think for us, this will hit especially close to home
 because all three of us have done a lot of thinking
 and writing about like different kind of measures
 that DeFi protocols use and have been experimenting with
 to try to keep users safe and to respond
 to like emergencies or things like that, right?
 So like one example is asset curation, right?
 So I mentioned some of the ways in which asset curation
 could be considered control and thus subject
 to user regulation, the reality is that many DeFi protocols
 decide which tokens or pools are supported
 to manage risk and to protect users, right?
 But under this bill, that sort of discretion could be read
 as control over trading, even when it's transparent
 or rules-based.
 And then another example that I'm sure a lot of people
 are familiar with, many DeFi protocols, I would say,
 I mean, I don't know if it's most of them,
 but many DeFi protocols, including a lot of the ones
 that like people have been using for years
 and that people generally think of as like pure DeFi,
 they have some form of a kill switch
 that allows a centralized party or like some small number
 of parties on a multi-sig to pause the protocol,
 to respond to security incidents like hacks or exploits, right?
 So it doesn't allow you to unilaterally reroute
 or like withdraw funds, it just lets you pause things
 and sometimes just for like a defined period, right?
 So under the new DeFi language, this alone
 could mean that they're no longer exempt
 and potentially have to register as like a broker or something.
 And not to mention, like I think it can be very nuanced, right?
 So like there are a lot of different ways
 that kill switches are activated or a lot of different ways
 that they're designed, right?
 So some DeFi protocols have kill switches
 that are centrally triggered, but they're subject to a time lock
 of like 24 hours where users or token holders can vote
 to veto the pause, right?
 So like what a situation like that or a mechanism like that
 would that count as unilateral control?
 And the same issue arises with other kinds
 of emergency risk controls, right?
 Doing things like temporarily lowering allocation caps
 or increasing collateral or like responding
 to an Oracle failure, disabling a function during an exploit.
 Like all of these things I think are just basic safety engineering
 and a lot of times they're done in ways that are transparent
 and pre-programmed and automated, but even so,
 under the new language, I think all of those kinds of actions
 could be treated as impermissible control
 over trading conditions.
 And you know, this even applies to things like--
 - Really scary 'cause we don't want
 to disincentivize projects from doing this.
 And I'll also use like we don't have time
 to go into this in depth, but some people missed this
 just yesterday, the US FTC Federal Trade Commission,
 which is often in charge of kind of consumer protection,
 issued a proposed complaint against the Nomad Bridge,
 the Nomad Token Bridge, late to a hack.
 And one of the things it said is they made
 a number of highly problematic kind of concerning statements
 in this, so I would check it out if you're not familiar.
 - But including that the company failed
 to incorporate circuit breakers or a kill switch
 that could immediately cease the option of the bridge.
 - Yeah, right.
 - So this is inherently contradictory.
 - I'm bad.
 - That's a kill switch, but you can't have a kill switch
 because they-- - Yeah, and the prosecutors
 in the tornado cache made the same argument, right?
 Because the defense was, this was like fully autonomous,
 like we don't have the ability to stop or block anything.
 And they said, well, you should have built that in, right?
 So but this bill is saying if you built that in,
 you're no longer decentralized.
 And so I think there is just a lot of conflicts here.
 Yeah, like is that what Congress is really like intending
 to do here is to discourage things that like protocols
 might want to implement in order to like respond
 to emergencies and to keep users safe and that sort of thing.
 I think that's a really important question to address.
 - Josh, it's so hard.
 - And the other thing is I want to be clear,
 before Jesse weighs in, I want to be clear
 that I think all of us are in favor of legislation.
 Like my fear is that we don't have legislation
 and we have a different administration.
 So it's always a little scary for as a GC
 to more vocally criticize clarity and any bill
 because I don't want the perfect to be the enemy of the good.
 But a lot of the things we're saying constructively,
 this is why it's important to see these things
 during the markup period so they can be changed
 before they become law.
 Sorry, Jesse, go ahead.
 - Like this bill is humongous
 and will change a lot of things.
 So we want to make sure people understand it
 and know the pros and cons and then be able to make
 their own decision about whether to support it or not.
 I guess what I was going to talk about is control.
 It's such a hard concept.
 And I think we've all sort of put that out there
 as a test to think about.
 And it makes sense legally.
 And it's been something that lawyers in crypto
 have been talking about forever as something to focus on.
 But perhaps that we've over-indexed a bit
 on the risk associated with using the word control
 and the concept of it because in the real world,
 for example, sanctions at illicit finance,
 like it often requires continuous interaction with tooling,
 not binary control.
 And yet we're looking for this answer.
 And I don't think we're going to solve this right now
 on this pod, but we're looking for this answer of like,
 how do we have a clear decision for developers
 on whether they're looped in or they're not?
 And control seems to be a good way to do it.
 But the more that we build and the more
 that there's different types of projects doing different types
 of things with different incentives,
 it's hard to say that this line, whether if you control
 or anything is the right way to go.
 And we have Summer.
 So I will just say that.
 Hi! Hello! Today's episode is sponsored by Figure,
 which is transforming financial services using blockchain.
 They're the largest non-bank mortgage lender in the US,
 with over $19 billion unlocked on their lending platform.
 Now they're offering industry low crypto-backed loans
 at 8.91% interest rates at 50% LTV for BTC, ETH, and Sol.
 They differentiate themselves
 by offering decentralized MPC custody,
 which protects your crypto ownership in a segregated wallet.
 They've also recently launched Liquidation Protection
 to protect you from liquidation during large price drops.
 Whether you're funding a major purchase, investing,
 or even buying more Bitcoin, figure makes it transparent.
 Visit figuremarkets.co/unchained
 to take advantage of their crypto-backed loans today.
 We talk a lot about hair on this podcast, it's over.
 Hey, Arishan, are you?
 I hate to blow dry my hair.
 It's like my vein of my existence.
 And so I just keep going shorter and shorter
 and fine to save time in the morning.
 I can't work for the pinky hot cut.
 It looks very chic.
 It looks very chic.
 Thank you.
 Okay, to our listeners,
 I'm gonna pass this to V to introduce our very special guest,
 but we're so happy to have you.
 Okay, yes, hi, Summer.
 Thanks so much for joining.
 So she needs no introduction,
 but Summer Mercinger is the CEO
 of the Blockchain Association
 and a former CFTC commissioner.
 We're so grateful that she's taking time
 out of what is maybe like one of the most eventful weeks
 we've ever had in crypto policy
 to kind of just like give us an update and her outlook.
 And actually Summer, I was so curious to see
 if you'd be like zooming in from a broom closet
 in the Dirksen building in between readings or something today,
 but it looks like you're in a natural office.
 So that's good.
 Okay, so thank you again for joining us.
 We don't want to take up too much of your time.
 I know you're really busy,
 but I just wanted to start off by asking
 like how you're feeling right now,
 especially given the midnight text
 that was released last night.
 There's a lot of new stuff in there
 that I think we're all still working through,
 but what is your general take so far on the latest draft?
 Do you think the markup on Thursday is really gonna happen?
 I know the Senate Agriculture Committee Committee
 has already punted on there.
 So what are your thoughts on everything?
 - Yeah, I think the markup will definitely happen.
 At this point, there's the question of
 is it a bipartisan markup or a partisan markup?
 The text came out as bipartisan,
 but what we were hearing this morning
 is that there were no Democrats supporting the text,
 has it yet?
 But these are very fluid conversations
 and they're going on constantly.
 So I could very well see a situation
 where they have a markup on Thursday
 and they have some bipartisan support.
 If that happens and they get out of committee
 with a good bipartisan vote,
 I think we're on a fast track to seeing this
 move to the Senate floor within a month.
 They're not less.
 Agriculture, I think the fact that they punted
 to last week and January, I think that was good,
 they really wanted to be a bipartisan markup
 with the Agriculture Committee, they weren't there yet.
 And they just felt like if they had a few more weeks,
 they could get to a good place.
 And I know they are talking daily,
 they're having negotiations on some of the last issues
 that are outstanding between the two sides.
 So it's all moving in the right direction.
 I always say legislation is so hard
 because something completely unrelated
 could totally throw it off track.
 So it's hard to predict, but things feel
 like they're moving in the right direction.
 And I feel like maybe I was more pessimistic last week.
 And this week I felt a lot more kind of optimistic
 about the potential for this to get to the Senate floor.
 - Okay, so that makes me feel better at least.
 So you've been in the room for a lot of these meetings
 that have taken place,
 including with participants from the traffic side.
 So like some of the big banks and organizations like SIFMA,
 can you tell us what that's been like?
 And like how much are you talking to them directly?
 - Yeah, so I know on a lot of the DeFi stuff,
 they brought in the stakeholders directly,
 DeFi and SIFMA and just said,
 can you guys get to an agreement?
 And you know, I think those conversations
 have generally been going well.
 And I think sometimes it is you just get people in a room
 and they sort of cross someone one another
 and it gets hard to throw bombs at each other
 when you're sitting face to face.
 And so I do think that having those stakeholders
 in a room talking has been very beneficial.
 I've been spending a lot of time on the rewards issue.
 I would say the TreadFi has been less willing
 to negotiate on that.
 They really feel like they have the upper hand
 in that they can just push through an amendment
 and get what they want.
 That's been a little frustrating.
 But I think the good news is we have the White House
 on our side on that issue.
 We have a lot of Chairman Scott and a lot of his,
 the members on the Republican side
 on our side with the rewards issue.
 So I think ultimately we can get to a good place.
 I don't know if the text is there yet.
 But again, it's trying to have these conversations,
 real time and you're working line by line and word by word.
 And it just takes a long time to get everybody
 to a good place.
 - Yeah, I'm a rewards issue, I just wanna remind our listeners
 what Summer's referring to is the fact
 that a lot of the banks have been fighting.
 I would say any crypto market structure legislation
 more generally, but particularly this one issue
 where there are rewards linked to stablecoins
 'cause obviously it compromises
 a fundamental value proposition for their business.
 So just wanted to explain that really briefly.
 On that piece Summer, the other thing that has arisen
 quite dramatically out of the blue is,
 as I think everyone knows,
 just recently the president tweeted his support
 in cutting off credit card interest rates at 10%.
 This is not a crypto thing, but this would be very devastating
 economically for credit card issuers
 and cause some major market movement in trad buy.
 And there is a sense that banks are really exerting
 a lot of authority and fighting clarity
 and now they have to shift their resources to fight
 the credit card thing.
 And like this to me feels very Washington chess game.
 Like what is your take on that?
 - And not to mention the CCRA, no notice that came out.
 I guess this morning from Trump.
 So I'd love just all of that a response as well.
 - Don't forget to define CCRA for our list app.
 - Yeah, the Credit Card Responsibility Act,
 it's had so many names.
 I was working on this issue when I was in the Hill
 from early 2000s.
 I mean, this is the, like this issue comes up all the time.
 You see the word interchange to any financial services staff
 on the Hill and they, you know,
 wanna go on a corner and hide.
 So there's, it's kind of a,
 this issue comes up all the time.
 You know, it's never had the votes
 to get added to any legislations
 or when it's been close to having votes
 to get added to legislation,
 if shut down the amendment process on the Senate floor.
 So that particular bill,
 and again, this would cap interchange fees on credit cards.
 So that particular approach,
 that particular bill has had many opportunities
 to make it to the floor, to make it to a floor vote.
 And politically, it's just not occurred.
 Having the President weigh in is probably
 definitely changing the game,
 changing the landscape here.
 I agree, the bankers have been fighting so hard
 on the rewards yield issue.
 And they have activated the community banks on it too,
 claiming that this is going to harm community banks.
 Well, this is a much bigger issue for those same banks,
 you know, having a cap on the interchange fees.
 It's, this pays for a lot of marketing material
 that those companies do.
 The, you know, when they, when they white label those cards,
 they get a lot of, they get a lot of revenue
 from those interchange fees.
 So this is a bigger issue for the bankers
 to have to focus on.
 And I think, you know, that was part of,
 probably what the President was doing here
 is maybe reminding them,
 hey, you need to play ball
 because it's not just about rewards and yield.
 There's a lot of other things that can come up.
 And, you know, it doesn't take,
 you're not, you're not the fan favorite right now.
 Yeah.
 And just be careful what, what you're putting out there
 and where you're, you know, pressing buttons.
 Yeah, I think we're still all digesting
 like a lot of the new language from the draft,
 but it looks like where the stable coin rewards stuff landed
 for now is that you can't get rewards or yields
 on merely holding balances,
 but for other kinds of activity you can.
 So I think some people are kind of looking at that
 as like a partial victory at least for the banks.
 Like, what are you, what are you thinking of it right now?
 And do you think it's close to where
 it's something that like BA could get behind?
 Yeah, and we've been working on this with stakeholders
 very closely and this is where I'm like,
 we've been going word by word, line by line.
 The draft text that came out, you know,
 it had pieces of what has been offered
 on the stable coin side.
 There's some new language in there
 that's probably not, you know, palatable.
 But I guess the question,
 what we have to figure out,
 what we have to think about is there are the votes
 for an amendment that probably is a little more restrictive.
 Senator Alsoprux has been looking at language
 that would, you know, again, restrict to deposits,
 but also include anti-evasion act language
 and also language that would create a study
 and deposit flights and then allow the regulators
 to have a rulemaking based on whatever they find in that study.
 That's a hard no for stakeholders.
 So I think what everyone is trying to decide right now
 is can we get somewhere that we can hold the votes,
 we can prevent an amendment that's gonna be worse
 from getting adopted in committee
 and try to find, you know,
 language that people, nobody's gonna love the language,
 it's not gonna be perfect.
 In fact, even the fact that we're dealing with this
 in market structure is frustrating
 because Genius was just passed in July of last year
 that he just started the rulemaking process.
 So it's kind of unfortunate that we are going back
 and reopening a bill that just went through pretty,
 you know, a pretty major negotiating process
 to get to where, you know, to get Genius done.
 So I think that we're kind of weighing that,
 like what is the path forward here?
 I think the amendments that we see
 on the Senate Bank Committee has told their members
 if they want an amendment, they must file it by 5 p.m.
 Those will be listed on their website.
 That'll give us a really good idea of, okay,
 where are people going on this issue?
 Where are their villa?
 And, you know, how do we handle that kind of a next step?
 So it's a very kind of touch and go process.
 - Yeah, can we shift to DeFi for just a second,
 which is kind of like one of the other big,
 very like hard fought, hotly contested issues in this bill?
 So there's a lot of new--
 - We're gonna get to DeFi, which is really meaty.
 I just wanna ask really quick,
 Summer's take on this weird ETF thing.
 'Cause like that's very, yeah,
 'cause I wanna have a meaty conversation on DeFi,
 but the other thing in the bill that a bunch of people
 are very upset about is it exempts crypto assets
 that have existing ETFs as of Jan 1
 from certain disclosure requirements.
 - So radiant.
 - What is your take on that?
 'Cause I think that's really upsetting
 a bunch of crypto market participants.
 - Yeah, so it's an interesting fix, you know,
 I think the idea behind it was, you know,
 some of these disclosures are so onerous
 that you're almost looking like you're doing public,
 you know, like your public company
 and that level of disclosure.
 And for some of these, you know,
 kind of more mature blockchain,
 you know, I think going that route
 was gonna be really, it's gonna be really tough.
 And when you think about these ETFs,
 by having those products,
 there's been some level of, you know,
 kind of the SEC has looked into them.
 They've been these as commodities already.
 So these are, you know, their products on commodities
 and there are disclosures involved with the ETF.
 So I think the idea was, well, if you have an ETF trading,
 you know, there's already disclosures there.
 Some of the due diligence has already been done.
 So let's carve that group out.
 I think this is really interesting.
 This is where blockchain association
 can be probably most helpful in this whole process.
 I think there's a path forward, you know,
 it could be that that data is a little bit too narrow
 and maybe we try to span it out a little bit.
 But I do think we can get members in a good place,
 both those who, it's really important to have that ETF carve out
 and those who may want to use that at a later date,
 but wouldn't be able to do it by the date in the bill.
 So this is an area where we are literally getting members together.
 We're talking, we're going back and forth.
 We hope to have some sort of negotiated language
 that we can send up to the Senate
 and say this works for both sides.
 - Absolutely.
 - Yeah.
 So with respect to DeFi,
 I think it's very meaty like Catherine was saying.
 We were just talking about this right before you jumped on,
 but it seems like the framework really revolves around
 this idea of control.
 And I sort of have a number of issues with that,
 but one is I think that that idea conflates the idea
 of decentralization and permissionlessness,
 which actually are not the same thing.
 And what it incentivizes, I think,
 is like it disincentivizes protocols
 from implementing any kind of user or market safety measures,
 even if they're fully automated,
 that could trigger regulation.
 And I just, I don't know if that's what Congress intended to do.
 So I think as an industry,
 we should look at this language really carefully.
 But the other question I had for you,
 especially because you used to be a commissioner at the CFTC.
 So I'm really curious your thoughts here.
 The other issue I was thinking of
 with respect to the new DeFi language
 is really like a process one.
 Like to me, it seems highly unusual for Congress
 to legislate with this level of technical granularity.
 Like I think typically this level of like definition
 and technical parameters and rules are typically left
 to the agencies to figure out through like rulemaking
 or guidance or decisions whether to enforce against
 like a company or not.
 And just in my opinion, some of the stuff in here
 is really technical.
 It's really in the weeds.
 And it's like, I don't know
 that Congress should be weighing in at that level.
 And certainly I think Congress should be giving us
 more than 24 hours to weigh in
 as market participants and stakeholders.
 So this is just a process issue, right?
 So like I'd love your thoughts on that.
 Like is this the kind of stuff
 that you would typically expect the CFTC and the SEC
 to weigh in on as opposed to Congress.
 Like defining with like 50 different factors
 what control means.
 - Yeah, this has been interesting
 because normally you would say you want technology neutral
 bill language so that you're not locking
 in any one particular technology.
 Let the regulators who have a little more flexibility
 and you slide the parameters but don't lock it into law.
 But everyone is coming off of this
 like Gary Gensler nightmare.
 And there's a lot of people who are so afraid
 to turn over details to the administrative agencies
 that they've really asked for, you know,
 very specific language in different areas
 where you would normally leave it to rulemaking.
 I don't think around that's what we're looking at
 with this issue but I've seen it a lot
 throughout this process that people are just kind of scared
 of the regulator's writing rules.
 And so they're asking Congress to be more specific.
 There's, you know, the DeFi stuff is really interesting.
 Section five, they got it right.
 It's in a good place but they added some new things
 in section three around illicit finance that are not okay.
 And so it's like whack-a-mole, right?
 You get one area in a good place
 and then another one pops up.
 I think we've been on the hill talking to senators
 about, you know, how do we maybe get some
 of these sections out, get them removed,
 and how do we move forward with amendments on this?
 You know, it's tough when you are up there talking
 to members and staff.
 There's just a fundamental misunderstanding
 of what DeFi is, what a protocol is,
 who's involved, who has, to your point, you know,
 what is control, what's not control.
 And it's really been tough to try to educate them
 to fully understand it.
 And a lot of times what we see in the text is, you know,
 a reflection of the lack of understanding.
 You know, you can even talk a little more
 about the specifics of what you think is maybe going too far
 on the DeFi illicit finance side of it.
 So it's something we've talked a lot about
 and I know we've all had meetings on the hill
 about this topic and have had thrown out different proposals
 to touch grace on them, some included, some not.
 - Yeah, yeah, I mean, some of it is this idea that, you know,
 that you would have somebody constantly keeping up
 with some of the, you know, if you put something in place
 that you would have to constantly monitor that.
 And then that suddenly is like, is there control, you know,
 I think there's some questions around, you know,
 front ends, although they have a new term for that
 in this language.
 I don't have my crutch with me, Lindsey Frazier,
 who's amazing, who knows all the stuff much better than I do.
 I bring her with me everywhere I go.
 But it's really this, there's a lot of new definitions
 that do not make sense.
 There's some conflicting definitions in there.
 And it's creating kind of new requirements
 and responsibilities that just don't work for DeFi.
 And so if we get rid of that section
 and recognize that it's not gonna work.
 - Well, it's important just to get out the fact
 that Lindsey who recently joined PA has had a policy,
 was former had a policy for Uniswap.
 So that kind of comes in handy when you've been
 in the middle of DeFi as part of this conversation.
 So that's great.
 I'm sure she's trading on that, understanding and information.
 - Absolutely.
 - So Jesse, we were gonna touch on this
 right before you joined summer,
 but actually I would love your thoughts on this.
 Jesse, do you wanna talk about how you think
 the control definition or the control standard
 in the new DeFi section would apply to something
 that in reality, almost every DeFi front end does today,
 even the ones that everyone considers pure DeFi,
 which is sanctioned screening.
 And it's usually automated, but yes.
 Can you talk about that?
 And then summer we would love your thoughts.
 - You know, Jesse and I, like summer,
 yeah, have a special place in our heart
 for programmable risk management.
 And all these things that DeFi can and should do
 to make it safer, but obviously we don't want that to mean
 that they all of a sudden get swept into regulation.
 - Full, yeah.
 - I did read your paper, so-- - Oh, we're here.
 - We'll put it in the show notes yet again.
 - Okay.
 - Out of bread and self promotion.
 I think why you, Jesse, sorry, go ahead.
 - Yeah, absolutely.
 I think that more and more projects
 are overlaying sanctions checks,
 but also just sort of like illicit finance tools
 that also help with cybersecurity.
 It's not just about sanctions,
 but it's also identifying actors
 that could potentially hack your protocol, right?
 And so we all know about chain analysis, TRM,
 there's many others, block aid, predicate,
 and these provide really important tools
 that you can frequently set it and forget it for a while,
 but that's not really how it works
 and that's not really how we encourage projects to use it
 because then it doesn't really help them
 and it doesn't really protect their users
 in a way that's continuous.
 And so I feel like the bill tries to make this line
 between discretionary control and everything else,
 but like risk management doesn't fit cleanly into anything
 because in practice, layering these tools on
 and enforcing sanctions isn't binary,
 just like cybersecurity protections aren't binary.
 To me, like the bill doesn't really resolve
 what continued or action puts you over the line of why.
 So like, let's do a tangible example, right?
 So let's talk about chain and TRM.
 Most projects have that in some form
 or they use it just to stop any explicit sanction address
 that is listed by OFAC or other like sanctioning entity
 and another government.
 But over time, overlaying that requires updating lists,
 tuning heuristics, responding to false positives
 and coordinating with counterparty.
 So like, at what point does ongoing judgment
 turn rule-based compliance or rule-based risk management
 into human control?
 And that's what I can't quite figure out in this book.
 - Well, so you know what I would add to that?
 It's actually very ambiguous to me
 that even if you do sanction screening
 or some other compliance measure
 through a fully automated mechanism,
 you could still be exercising control, right?
 Because one of the parts of the definition is it,
 do you control access?
 It doesn't say whether it's automated or discretionary.
 Do you restrict which tokens can be allowed, right?
 Do you exclude low quality collateral from your protocol?
 Like all of these things could potentially sweep you
 into the definition of control.
 But these are all things that DeFi protocols do every day,
 and it shouldn't mean that they should be regulated
 like as brokers, right?
 These are just like smart engineering.
 - Totally.
 And one more point on X predicate, for example,
 that puts policies in and can change them.
 Do they become that for all the projects
 that they're working for?
 Like, where is the line?
 - And the other thing, Summer, like,
 I want you to opine on this before.
 And you obviously, the three of us feel very passionate about this.
 - We don't have any opinions.
 - You have an evening perspective as an X CFTC commissioner.
 And I have never been a regulator,
 but I've dealt with regulators my entire career,
 especially doing white-collar defense.
 To some degree, I often say to crypto,
 we have to give regulators a degree of credit
 in terms of there's a lot of regulators,
 yourself included while you were at the commission,
 that were highly pragmatic and reasonable.
 And, you know, this is true of enforcement as well.
 Like, there is a spectrum, Jesse knows this,
 DOJ in particular.
 They're not gonna indict unless they can convince, for example.
 But how do you feel about this provision
 where there is a theoretical possibility,
 which is scary for crypto having been burned,
 of kind of this overreach?
 - Yeah, I mean, and again, this is like a demonstration
 of the fundamental misunderstanding of how this works.
 I'm sure whoever is working on this section
 thought that it was a sudden forget-it-type thing
 and that, you know, nobody ever had to go back
 and make sure it was still operating the way it should.
 And, you know, I think trying to get in front of those folks
 to make them understand what this means
 and what they've created by with this language.
 So, you know, that's that piece of it,
 at least with the legislation, you know,
 going on the regulatory piece of it,
 it was always interesting to me,
 we'd bring these DeFi cases.
 I always just sent it on them.
 And it wasn't necessarily because I was saying,
 "Oh, I think this protocol."
 And, you know, I didn't know enough.
 I didn't have enough information.
 I couldn't have said this is absolutely decentralized.
 I didn't have all that information.
 What I knew was that they found somebody
 that they could go to and threaten with the lawsuit
 and they did and they never explained to them,
 well, here's how you could,
 here are different ways you could abide by
 the existing regulations.
 And so, to me, it was always more of a like,
 there's gotta be a way where, again,
 you stay technology neutral.
 You don't try to get into these debates about, you know,
 control and, you know, who is doing what.
 And just look at it more from the standpoint of, you know,
 how is somebody supposed to operate
 within the broader context of what's legal,
 what's allowed under the regulations.
 So, you don't have a future administration
 that just uses the law and the rules
 as a weapon against something they don't understand.
 - Absolutely.
 Summer, we're almost at time.
 So, I just wanna take a moment to say thank you so much
 for joining us, taking the time on a really busy stretch.
 Although, we are in crypto.
 We always pay that.
 Like, what is there a time when we're like,
 "Oh, it's really chill."
 And this is-
 - That's the biggest.
 - I would say though.
 - I'd say it's like, "Buds were on that note."
 - Absolutely.
 I think we don't have to do that every day.
 - It's just an action for like the busiest week ever.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 - Don't say that.
 It will get worse.
 - It will get worse.
 - Absolutely.
 - Absolutely.
 Friday, good play.
 Thank you for your leadership at BA.
 BA is doing a lot of really great work
 on behalf of crypto in Washington Blockchain Association.
 Check it out, listeners.
 If you aren't familiar.
 And, you know, I, again, as Jesse said,
 keep doing God's work and thank you so much for joining us.
 - Oh, thank you.
 - Thank you so much.
 - Thank you, Summer.
 - This was fine.
 - And on that note, that for this episode
 of Decks in the City, thanks to you, our listeners,
 and a lot of yours for me.
 And we'll see you next week.
 Have a great week.
