TITLE: Why Protocol-Native Stablecoins May Be Crypto’s Next Big Thing
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJcNz11R_uI
VIDEO_ID: pJcNz11R_uI

TRANSCRIPT:
It is such a bullish news for the ecosystem because what is happening is competition is driving more economic back to the user and developer.
 So I think that's also why this news is so controversial.
 It's so significant and it's such a demonstration of I think just next step what a protocol is really about.
 It's about bringing economic value back to the users.
 Hey everyone, welcome to Unchained. You're no hype resource for all things crypto.
 I'm your host Laura Shin.
 This is the September 12th, 2025 episode of Unchained.
 The crypto world is buzzing.
 On October 1st and 2nd, 25,000 people will be at token 2049 Singapore,
 the largest crypto event in the world,
 featuring headline speakers like Eric Trump, Vlad Tenev, Tom Lee,
 Vology Srinivasan, and Arthur Hayes. Visit asia.token2049.com now to get 15% off tickets with the code Unchained.
 Today's guest is Shuyia Kong, co-founder of Mega Eve. Welcome, Shuyia.
 Thank you, Laura. I have been a long term fan of your podcast and book.
 It's such a pleasure to be here.
 Thank you. That's so sweet. Well, I'm excited to have you.
 Listeners might actually already know you because you appeared on the chopping block,
 but they called you Brother Bing throughout.
 I didn't like went into a whole thing about like how you even got that nickname.
 So for those of you who know Brother Bing, this is Brother Bing.
 But yes, we have used her rilling here.
 Okay, so we are in the midst of what is so far been a very intense competition
 for the USDH stablecoin ticker on hyper liquid.
 We already did an episode on this.
 We listened to two of the teams kind of, you know, talking about like what they were pitching.
 But there was many other teams that have made proposals and a bunch of them have also offered
 to give all the revenue back to hyper liquid.
 You know, the race has had an element of drama.
 There's been accusations that this was in the bag for native markets all along.
 There were, you know, Paxos and other teams that like revamped their proposals based on feedback.
 And then on Thursday, Athena, which they had actually already bought other stablecoin tickers
 on hyper liquid, they withdrew from contention for the USDH ticker that happened on Thursday morning.
 So, you know, throughout Shuiao, your protocol has actually been kind of in a bit of an interesting position
 because you actually also announced your protocol native stablecoin USDM on Monday.
 And you mentioned to me earlier that the hyper liquid drama actually caused you to shift that announcement.
 So, why don't you, you know, because you've been through what the community is going through
 the public, but you went through it in private.
 I was just curious, like, why do you think we're seeing this kind of like, you know,
 swelling up a competition and deliberation over these different protocol native stablecoins?
 Yeah, I think first of all, I am super bullish that hyper liquid is actually doing such a public auction.
 I think it's a fantastic opportunity, not only to bring attention, but bring the best deals out to the hyper liquid community.
 It is also a fantastic way to educate the community on what is the role of a stablecoin ecosystem.
 I think fundamentally, I am super bullish because I think crypto in our industry is all about this intermediary.
 And stablecoin issue are used to serving as an intermediary in an ecosystem, but now we're seeing that protocol
 are owning the stablecoin narrative again, and revenue or yield are being redistributed back to the community.
 From our end, I think we saw this trend very much earlier on.
 Our goal is to build an ecosystem center around economic model that brings a very sustainable protocol.
 And obviously, another goal in the beginning was, you know, I was at consensus for a long time.
 I've seen many different protocols launching from zero to one.
 And every time I go to a new ecosystem, I'm trying to like bridge asset or trade.
 And I will see like 10 different representation of stablecoin.
 I just don't know which one to use.
 And obviously, you go with the big ones, right? But the big ones, the yield doesn't go to the ecosystem.
 So I think partly it was because I was trying to solve the user pain point.
 When you go to an ecosystem, there is one stablecoin that is aligned with the community interest backed by the community.
 So that was the original purpose of us issuing our own stablecoin.
 But I think hyper liquid definitely, you know, took it to like 10x, much bigger and better than us.
 Yeah, well, I'd be curious if you could just relay that story again about how this competition over USDH affected your announcement.
 Yeah, it wasn't affecting. I mean, we were supposed to announce it in the middle of the week.
 But then we saw the USDH announced, well, the governance forum and we follow it up very closely.
 And then we realized that, okay, you know, what, instead of announcing in the middle of the week, because everybody is following USDH, we should just announce ours a little bit earlier.
 So we worked over the weekend.
 Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, clearly, I think it was the right move because that news did break through on Monday.
 But yeah, by the middle of the week, the competition over USDH kind of had broken through to a fever pitch.
 So the other thing that's been really interesting to watch is all these different arguments that have been made in public over, you know, which team should win.
 And, you know, there's been a lot of different kind of factors that people have been calling out about, you know, what they think are more important than others.
 When your team was trying to decide which team to go with for USDM, what factors did you consider and how did you eventually make your choice?
 Yeah, the analogy I often think about doing business development in crypto is always, it's like early stage investing.
 The fundamental thesis and ethos and how we think about just business development is picking the right team, whether they are founders or the team within a larger company.
 And then the reason is that if the founder and team really value your business and value the partnership, then they can actually weather all of the difficulties.
 Right. So I saw that a lot of people were worried about like compliance. Obviously, it was a reason for us.
 But if you look at Genius Act, it's going to take months for things to play out.
 And my job is to pick a team that's able to weather the compliance storm with us.
 Another factor would be like adoption of the stablecoin.
 My job is to make sure that my partner is able to bring new use cases, is able to be resilient and strong when things are not going well.
 And then I think lastly, it would be a team that really value our own ecosystem, like understand what mega does.
 I think in the case of hyper liquid, right? We both saw the announcement this morning from Guy, I think the chance of making markets winning is perhaps really high.
 I think here at the hyper liquid community are valuing that, okay, we're going to choose an early stage company, even though they have no track record.
 But we believe that they're going to do the best thing for us, even though they're not giving 100% yield back to the community.
 But their goal is to really grow the USDA to adoption.
 Yeah, and just for people. So I know this is going to go out Friday, but on Thursday, at the time we're recording, it looks like native markets has a 93.5% chance of winning the USDA ticker on polymarket.
 So, you know, I kind of also looked there. There's a little dashboard where you can look at how the race is going.
 And yeah, it does look like all, you know, I wouldn't say all, but like the vast majority of the validators that have a large stake are for native markets.
 But I actually wanted to ask about that. Is it just so like when I was looking at it, I was like, well, you know, people can move their stake. Is it just that they haven't moved their stake?
 Or is it just that people think the whales are going to, you know, not change their stake? And so like, even if everyday people switch their stake, it doesn't matter. Like, what do you think?
 Oh, I can only guess. I feel like people speculate on this. And I think part of it is a self-fulfilling prophecy. But I do think this idea of backing a native protocol makes sense to everyone. And it kind of became a consensus.
 Okay. Well, earlier in the week, I don't know if I would say that everybody thought that. But okay. But before we, before we even get into all that, I did want to ask, like, so you guys chose Athena. Why did you choose Athena?
 Yeah, so Athena has a track record of building a stable corner that is wildly successful. But second, I would say, like, you know, we follow our philosophy. I think working with Athena team with Guy has been really a pleasure.
 They were able to solve a lot of our compliance issues. So we were actually thinking about this many months ago. This was before Genius Act, before, like, anyone even thought about it. So the amount of money and time we spent on legal was like insane.
 And then, and obviously, you know, Guy came and just sorted a lot of things off our shoulder. And, you know, we are focusing our launching a chain, right? Like, our job is a launching stable coin. So that's a primary reason. We've talked to other partners as well. And everyone has been, I would say, amazing.
 Oh, I have, you know, nothing against them. To us is a matter of fit. It's a matter of just ponding with someone we really believe in. Well, in a moment, we are going to talk a little bit more about what exactly is happening with USDA, but first you record for the sponsors, make the show possible.
 Eric Trump, Donald Trump Jr, Tom Lee, Vlad Tenev, Paolo Arduino, Valjice Rini-Vassen, Arthur Hayes. These are just some of the headliners at Token 2049 Singapore, the largest crypto event in the world, happening October 1st and 2nd.
 Over 25,000 attendees, 500 exhibitors, and 300 speakers will converge for an unmissable week. Token 2049 will take over all five floors of Marina Bay Sands, transforming it into a pop-up city with 1,000 side events, non-stop networking, and immersive experiences, all leading into the Formula One Grand Prix weekend.
 Ticket prices are rising this week. Visit aja.token2049.com and use code "Unchain" for 15% off tickets. Back to my conversation with you, Yao.
 So you mentioned earlier about how people were valuing this hyper-liquid-aligned characteristic. Explain what that means. When people say that, what are they really saying?
 Do you mean the characteristics of the different framework and criteria?
 What does that mean in specifics? What does it mean to be hyper-liquid-aligned? Why would somebody who is more like a paxxist or a phenor or whatever some of those other teams that were not being described that way?
 Why? What is the difference?
 This is why I love your podcast by the way. You're very like, like, don't throw the word alignment to be specific. So my mentor model has been like, if hyper-liquid goes down, what will this stablecoin partner do?
 If this stablecoin partner have other business, they're going to abandon hyper-liquid and go through something else, right? That's going to support the business.
 I think a super hyper-liquid-aligned team would stay, again, weathering the storm along with the core team, because this is their core battleground. They have to win.
 I think that's where the spirits of alignment fundamentally comes from. This is our bet.
 Oh, interesting. We're already a success in other areas, so we can cut our losses if this doesn't work out, whereas for something like a native market, which is, I think, the proposal that has been most frequently called hyper-liquid-aligned, they don't have anything else. It's like sink or swim kind of situation.
 That is my interpretation of alignment. I think that's why people are saying homegirl is the most bullish, because they come on a way. There's nothing else out there.
 Okay. Well, so that's just one of the more common argument points that we've seen this week. And I wondered if you could talk about some of the other critiques or the way people are prioritizing different characteristics.
 As you're looking at that, do you feel like there's certain ways that people are thinking about this that's a little bit smarter, or not as smart?
 What are some of the different arguments that you've seen that kind of caught your attention as maybe how people are not necessarily? Because the people in the public, they're not building.
 So just in conversation, they might not be thinking about it the way that a builder would.
 There are few actually stood out to me and actually contribute to how, as an observer, I look at this, which, again, makes me even more bullish on hyper-liquid, I guess.
 I think one thing jumped out to me was, I think, with Paxos offering, they do have unfair advantage in Web2 and in try-fire that I think no one else can offer. I think that's really attractive.
 And I think the second one was, I think, the lawyer Averian Farm tweeted out about the compliance.
 It's really not about compliance today. It's really about complying the future, which I thought was a genius argument is actually how we start about picking a partner as well.
 And then I think the last one was, I forgot whom, I think the Athena argument has always been like, if the rate goes down, then you kind of want a more yield-bearing stable coin.
 I think that was clever, you know, the way I really think about stable coin is, you know, there are two types of stable coin users.
 One is the yield sensitive ones, you know, whatever you do, you have a risk appetite that, you know, trading player, everything has to be like levered and there has to be like something that's juicier than the 5% T-bill.
 And the other part is the yield agnostic one.
 I think for an ecosystem, you've got to have both. And it seems like the status quo is, you know, for the, for the yield baron, you do have Athena.
 You would have, you know, the newer ones, such as cap protocol.
 For the yield agnostic one, you have USDC, which is already big on hyper liquid.
 I assume USDC or USDT0 might come to hyper liquid as well. Big fan of the USDT team, we work with them as well. And then USDH.
 So yeah, that's how I see the whole landscape.
 Okay.
 So then I did want to also ask just, like, that moment when you saw that Athena withdrew, what did you think of that? Like, did you think that was a smart, you know, move on their part?
 Like, why not just wait and see what happens over the next few days?
 Or, yeah, why do you think they decided to withdraw?
 I could only guess. I think, you know, when you're a founder, every day you wake up, you're like, I have, like, a hundred things to do.
 And I need to prioritize.
 I think I'm just guessing in the Athena team's head is like, okay, I probably have other priority that I should work on.
 Not sure about the hyper liquid situation, given, you know, where the stakers are staking, the likely outcome of the vote.
 And I should just, like, cut the laws and focus on something else that's more important.
 But also, I thought that post was genius because it gets attention and then everyone actually can see if Athena doesn't win the proposal, what else they're going to do in the hyper liquid ecosystem.
 So, on and all, I think, is a winning post.
 Yeah, I mean, they basically said we already have these other tickers anyways, we're going to go ahead and do everything that we said we would do in the proposal, but with the different ticker.
 Yeah, because I think the line that got me was something like, what was it like saving five basis points on yield that's like going to be going down anyway, like, if like, meaning if it's from the treasuries, then.
 Yeah, so it's like, okay, yeah, that's a good point.
 All right, oh, no, I was going to say exactly that they're catering toward the yield sensitive audience.
 Yeah, exactly.
 All right, so, I just, I just also want to ask, like, about this competition, like, do you feel like we're going to be seeing more of this kind of public, you know, RFP type situation with Dallas, or do you feel like we won't because, you know, there has been controversy.
 And I do see still, like, some, you know, drama and intrigue on my timeline, people accusing each other of this and that like this team was trying to bribe that team.
 And anyway, as we saw also has seen Khrushchev dragonfly tweeted that, you know, he was already hearing well before the voting started that a bunch of the top validators were going to go for native markets and he felt like it was sort of rigged from the start.
 And yeah, I retweeted that and I got a lot of pushback and has seen a lot of criticism. So, yeah, I'm curious, do you feel like this is overall been good for the community and, like, points to a future trend or do you feel like people after watching this are going to be like, we're definitely not going to do anything
 in the public.
 So, I mean, what the hyper liquid did is very hyper liquid quoted and I doubt I doubt a lot of other protocol can replicate. I think they just have insane vision and it's almost like a style and attitude in how they run their ecosystem.
 I think the public pushback is very stereotypical crypto. I don't know you and I have been this industry for a long time. People just like catch on this controversial stuff and honestly this industry has been quiet in the last few months.
 So, I don't know, I saw people enjoy this, but I, yeah, I remain. I'm not certain how many teams will replicate such a, you know, public governance show. Okay, yeah, it's, it's been, it's been interesting because it's captured so much attention, which is positive, but then there's just been, yeah, a lot of drama.
 Well, I would add one more thing is I think I encourage more protocols to actually do open governance. I think this is what crypto was designed for in 2017 and people should do it, but I just think it's risky for a lot of teams.
 Yeah, well, yeah. Basically, there's just been this interesting trend, but the Dow's where it just feels like a lot of them are, are kind of pausing or just closing and even like scroll on Thursday also announced that they're.
 I don't remember the specifics of the wording, but yeah, they're, you know, not going to be as active in some fashion.
 And so, like earlier before, like basically when I recorded Wednesday with Agora and Paxos, we were like, Oh, this is revived Dow is a now, now I'm like, maybe not.
 But anyway, so I wanted to ask you, do you feel like this, you know, concept of this protocol native stablecoin do you feel like those stablecoins will always win?
 Or do you feel like, you know, now that we've had so many teams that have proposed stablecoins on hyper liquid that this will just be an ecosystem that is full of many stablecoins like how do you feel that competition will play out once that these are all launched.
 I think the one that gives the most back to token holder and community participants will ultimately win, think stablecoins as a service as a business is perhaps not differentiated.
 So you have to customize your offering based on what that ecosystem is known for and what's important to that ecosystem.
 You know, in hyper liquid is always the crypto native. I listened to your pod with Paxos and Agora. They can't mention, you know, we're here to supercharge a crypto native ecosystem.
 So, yeah, I do not see many stablecoin in successful ecosystem. I think they converge into the two category. I mentioned Yale sensitive and Yale agnostic.
 Okay. And then what do you think all of this means for tether and circle on hyper liquid like, do you feel like they'll eventually be pushed out in some way or what do you see happening to these incumbents.
 Unlikely in the near or medium term, I think they will continue to be there. I think they're adapting as well.
 You know, I think before it's incredibly expensive and difficult to get this incumbent. And I think now they are finding new solutions to be or present on different ecosystems. So I think how to say the matter is about to start.
 And I think fundamentally going back to what I said in the beginning, it is such a bullish news for the ecosystem, because what is happening is competition is driving more economic back to the user and developers.
 So, I think that's also why this news is so controversial. It's so significant and it's such a demonstration of, I think, just next step, what a protocol is really about is about bringing economic value back to their users.
 Okay. All right. Well, it's been a pleasure having you on Unchained.
 Thank you, Laura.
