TITLE: The Future of Money: Why Crypto Treasuries Are Just Getting Started
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-hiYf5pQ-ak
VIDEO_ID: -hiYf5pQ-ak

TRANSCRIPT:
Jan, welcome on Crypto Weekly. I just want to start asking you basically on DATs. Do you really
 see the momentum we've been seeing in the last couple of months continue with the number of DAT
 launches, but also investor inflows in the space? Thank you for having me, Henry. Absolutely.
 DATs are just getting started. I think what we're seeing now is the equivalent of a cruise ship
 being dropped into the harbor, and everybody's starting to realize that there's a new big player
 in the financial markets, and they are digital asset treasuries. They came out of the gate
 with a slow start with MicroStrategy back in 2020, who was the genesis digital asset treasury.
 They incubated for a bit, and really in 2025 especially, we have just seen remarkable growth
 with hundreds of digital asset treasuries coming to market, not just in New York,
 not just in London, but all around the world, even coming to Dubai. So we're seeing enormous
 growth both in terms of the number of digital asset treasuries, as well as the types of assets
 that they're backing, being backed with. First it was Bitcoin, then it was ETH, then it was Solana.
 Now we have TONX, the TON Telegram's blockchain. We have B&B, CZ's blockchain from Binance.
 We have so many different types of digital asset treasuries that's bringing an incredible amount
 of depth and breadth to the space. So this momentum is just getting started. There's going to be
 ups and downs, just like crypto. There's always ups and downs, but what we know in two rules with
 crypto is the market always goes up and down, but in the long term it always goes up.
 I wish there was always a case with every asset class, which is on this point, John,
 you mentioned there's obviously hundreds of over a hundred of these DATs, and even in each
 asset class that's in Bitcoin alone, there's quite a number of them. How do you see these
 different DATs differentiate themselves when it comes to towards investors and the market more
 generally? Absolutely. And just to be clear, there's not just a hundred, there's over 250 that I've
 seen at least that have come to the market. And these are massive, massive, just to give you a
 sense of the scale, some of these digital asset treasuries, these are tens of billions of dollars
 for just one of them. And so we're really seeing this come to bear. Now, to differentiate these
 digital asset treasuries, you have a different hierarchy of factors. The first one, of course,
 is what is the asset? Now, Bitcoin remains king. Bitcoin is king, will remain king,
 may it always be so. But we're also seeing assets like high quality top five crypto assets like
 Ethereum, like Solana, like BNB, they're all coming to the market. So with all these different assets,
 we're seeing differentiation for the asset class. And you have different types of investors who
 have different risk appetites for these assets. Bitcoin is a lot safer. And all these other
 longer tail assets may seem a little bit more risky, but have more reward.
 When you look down the line, for example, a lot of reasons these investors accessing these instruments
 is, of course, that's first access. There's obviously all the beauty of capital markets,
 they're able to leverage. But as crypto assets directly become more accessible to the broader
 range of investors, do you believe that's going to have a negative impact on the continuous growth
 of DATs? Or they have such unique features that there will be always a market for them?
 The beauty of DATs is that it's a self-reinforcing cycle. The more that people in the crypto world
 buy the actual assets, it increases the price of the assets. And what that does, it's a flywheel
 for the digital asset treasuries. It allows the digital asset treasuries to trade at a premium
 on the public markets. And then what they do is they'll issue debt or they'll issue equity,
 and they'll use that cash to buy the actual underlying asset, which then, in turn,
 raises the price of the underlying assets. You have this massive, massive vacuum that is already
 started that's hovering up all these digital assets. So you have the retail that's buying,
 but now you have these massive, massive cruise ships that are hovering up all the digital assets
 and causing this flywheel to go over and over and over. I think people don't understand
 that this is really starting to happen. And once you've started this flywheel, it doesn't really
 stop. So to use your analogy of the flywheel and the continuous momentum, are there any particular
 regions of the world where you believe this has a lot of upside of interest? I know, for example,
 certain markets, there's tax benefits if getting your crypto exposure via a DAT instead of just
 go buying Bitcoin directly. Are you seeing any regions where you believe there'll be
 particular interest in these DATs compared to others?
 Well, the US market, obviously, is the dominant one. So we'll kind of skip over that. But
 surprisingly, Japan, and especially Metoplanet with Simon Garovitch, has done an incredible job
 of redefining what's possible outside the United States. Metoplanet has very, very quickly
 become I think the number three holder of Bitcoin and all digital asset treasures. And so Japan,
 playing that ARB, that tax ARB, where they can benefit from holding the public stock rather than
 holding the underlying Bitcoin, is an amazing incentive for people in Japan to actually buy the
 company. But we're also seeing other jurisdictions like Brazil, like Orange, Orange and Brazil,
 just listed. And they also have an enormous amount of Bitcoin. So these jurisdictions all
 have their own unique qualities and their own unique little twists about tax law or about
 retirement packages and retirement pensions. And that really benefits and that kind of creates
 different other differentiators. We also have DDC. DDC is a New York stock exchange listed one,
 but with company out in China and Hong Kong. And so you have the ability to tap the mind share
 and the interest of people in Asia while having a very safely listed US listed kind of digital
 asset treasury. So you start to see a lot of these different things going around.
 I love it. It's such a global asset with, but adapted to the local
 particularities of each market. John, we need to have you back on the show a couple of months
 and we'll see how this ecosystem evolves. That was Johan Shue, the founder of Kinetic Capital.
 Thanks, John, for being with us today.
