TITLE: The Future of Money: Why Saudi Arabia is putting its entire land registry on-chain?
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ymVspdpOV5E
VIDEO_ID: ymVspdpOV5E

TRANSCRIPT:
Recently you were involved in the first, the global first, of the tokenization of the Saudi
 Arabia's real estate registry. Can you share with our audience what happened and what is the
 project and if it's, I mean, it is the first in the world for what I understand?
 Yeah, thanks, Henry. Thanks for having me. It's a pleasure to be here.
 Yeah, so last week we announced with the real estate registry of Saudi Arabia that a project to
 tokenize all of Saudi Arabia's property and land registry, which is the first in the globe.
 We announced that last week. We've been starting to work on that over the last few months and it
 will be delivered sometime in 2026. This is quite, to give an idea to our audience,
 this is basically entire country's real estate registry will be basically put on chain.
 Imagine every property and land title will be put on chain. That's phase one. Then we will
 fractionalize all of that. So the estimated value of the Saudi real estate market today is
 $1.6 trillion, estimated to grow to $2.3 trillion million by 2030 and all of that will be tokenized
 and fractionalized. You know, and obviously tokenization gives a lot of benefits,
 you know, fractionalization is one of them, enabling people to have access to another one.
 What you believe will be the most material impact this will enable within the Kingdom of
 Saudi Arabia. Yeah, so this will have a huge market impact. It's kind of hard to overstate
 the impact it will have on the market and it's a win-win for everybody in the market. So for
 citizens, they'll get faster, more secure transactions. For banks, it'll help them with risk management,
 being able to verify collateral. For developers, they'll get more access more quickly to financing.
 So it's really a win-win-win for everybody.
 And what is the biggest challenge? Because out of our figures, if this was easy, everybody would
 have done it already. And we've seen examples around the world of, let's say, land registries
 in certain parts city or, you know, region or district being put on chain. What is the biggest
 difficulty when trying to literally putting entire country's registry on chain?
 Yeah, so I think the factors that make that possible in Saudi Arabia, one is that obviously
 there's a nationwide commitment to digitization across every sector, but in particular in the
 real estate sector. There are very strong regulatory alignment between the regulators there, regulatory
 leadership on the topic. And then visionary leadership, right, by the real estate registry,
 in particular, but others in the ecosystem. And then I would say the other thing is, you know,
 the technology is ready, right? We've been building on blockchain technology for 10 years,
 and we're now ready to do something at this kind of scale and ambition.
 I can definitely see this plays a big part of Vision 2030 as well. I mean, it's fully
 aligned with what's of the macro goal as well. You know, when you look at it, Adam,
 from a, you take a step back, and obviously Saudi Arabia is the first country to do so.
 If there's any regions, you're very optimistic that you will see such projects over the next
 couple of years, or for example, smaller countries. Like I would expect, you know, intuitively,
 that if you're a prime minister, president of a small country, it's easier to do than
 a large country like Saudi Arabia. But where do you see this project being replicated over the
 next couple of years? Yeah, so I think with this particular real estate use case, I think this
 region is going to lead the way. For the reasons I described, you have very similar
 conditions in other countries in this region. And then hopefully, you know, ultimately,
 our vision is that the whole world will move this way where real estate titles will be
 beyond chain, ultimately, and much more easily tradable.
 You know, I've been talking about tokenization. Now we call them RWA back in the day we call them
 tokenization, before we used to call them security tokens. And I've been optimistic on
 the topic for many years, but I've been wrong, because often what we've seen over the years,
 the assets can be tokenized, but then there's no liquidity.
 Correct. How do you think now things are different compared to a couple of years ago,
 and how do you believe we can solve the liquidity issue of both on the offer and the demand side,
 especially on projects like these? Yeah, so with this project in particular,
 it's going to be we're also building a marketplace to go along with that.
 We're also going to be allowing prop techs to connect to our data to build our own market places.
 And that's what then leads to the liquidity. I agree. What you're talking about is perhaps
 more the financial use cases where the regulation, you know, has been a bit slower to come.
 The secondary marketplaces have therefore been a bit slower to develop. But I think this use case,
 real estate in this region has the potential to break through.
 You know, outside of real estate, what are the asset classes?
 I mean, we're seeing a lot now, treasuries being obviously tokenized. It's a big success story.
 What other assets are you very excited about that we'll see tokenized in the next 12 to 18 months?
 Yeah. So we at settlement, we've been doing this for 10 years, right?
 We've been we've been in this game for 10 years, basically tokenizing for large institutions and
 corporations globally. The use cases that we're seeing other than real estate in this region,
 most progress with are bonds in the financial world, in particular in Asia, stablecoins. Obviously,
 it's been it's been the year of stablecoins, tokenized deposits, money market funds.
 So all of this is developing. But, you know, we're extremely excited about this particular use case,
 because as you say, we can see it sort of come to fruition all the way in a near enough time frame.
 There's gonna be a lot of these use cases you mentioned. I would even add commodities.
 I mean, there's so much to be done in the space on it. One last question, Adam, is on the risk side.
 You know, there's a lot of policymakers, you know, watching the show and they're looking at
 tokenization of, you know, what are sectors of their economy, the land registry like Saudi Arabia
 just did. What do you think is the biggest risk for not only users, but let's say as an ecosystem
 when we tokenizing such assets? I think using technology, which is not proven,
 regulators not being central to the design of this solution,
 that can lead to marketplaces which don't take off or things go wrong very quickly, right? So,
 the important thing is to have the regulation clear and aligned the technology extremely robust
 and scalable, and then for the whole ecosystem to work together.
 And last point in 30 seconds, scalability. This is something I was used to be raised a lot.
 Do you believe that's even a concern now, scalability, or we saw that if technology is ready and we
 couldn't set scale right now, not an issue? The technology is ready, for sure. You know,
 we've been piloting and POCing for the last 10 years and we're starting to see these real
 production use cases, right? So, I think that the technology is there, but the stars have to
 align in the way that I described for to get real scale. Often it's not the technology,
 but it's everything around that makes it slow things down. That was very interesting and
 congratulation on this big milestone, not only for you, but also for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
 Very, very exciting. That was Adam Popat, the CO settlement, again, talking about the exciting
 world of tokenization.
