TITLE: Why It Matters That Crypto Is Not Purely for Degens Anymore: DEX in the City
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsjqybU7WWo
VIDEO_ID: qsjqybU7WWo

TRANSCRIPT:
For a long time crypto sort of operated under the assumption that the world would eventually adapt
 to us, right, that scale and adoption would force regulators to accommodate crypto.
 What's really interesting about this environment is
 cryptos at the table, trad buys at the table, trad buys not trying to kill this bill. In fact,
 a lot of trad buy industries are supporting the bill.
 There is something really amazing about the fact that like
 Dems have engaged and they continue to engage.
 Hi all and welcome to Decks in the City where the wallets are cold and the takes are hot.
 The holiday edition for those listeners who aren't watching, I'm wearing a tiny Santa hat.
 Jessie, first, web3 prosecutor turned web3 protector at Rivet Capital. Hi everyone,
 happy holidays is wearing a very festive red bow. As V just said, she looks like she's ready to
 perform in the netcracker. And then we have V from the SEC to web3. Happy holidays everyone.
 So blame Amazon, my head piece did not arrive in time, but I put up some little Christmas
 cheese in the back. So this was all these idea. I had to like dig this out of my ass. I'm sure.
 Yeah. And I'm the only one here wearing a tiny Santa hat, which I will happily rock for
 the duration of this podcast. So before we get going, remember we're lawyers, but we're not your
 lawyers. Nothing you hear on decks in the city is legal or financial advice, and it doesn't
 create an attorney-client relationship. And for the fine print, as always, check unchainedcrypto.com.
 I'm also wearing a very festive sweatshirt, by the way. It's a bunch of
 lights that are all tangled. And then underneath in the text, it says, it's fine. I'm fine. This
 is fine, which pretty much strikes our conversation today about crypto. Absolutely. It sums up everyone's
 lives in December and the state of crypto. The lights are tangled, but we are going to be fine.
 Okay. So that's actually the perfect way to kick off. So a lot of people saw a viral article
 that was written, I believe last week, the title was crypto is dead. It was by Dougie Diluca over
 at Figment Capital. And this article has already been discussed a lot. Unchained did a great episode
 with Mr. Diluca on these topics. We're not going to spend a lot of time on the article,
 but I'll summarize it very quickly. I would say that the way that I understood his messaging
 is that we're now at a point where kind of the crypto native technology and ethos as a self-contained
 world is dying. And we've talked about this a lot on the pod where we're at this kind of critical
 point where the trade markets and the crypto markets are converging. And what does that mean?
 It means that really certain things are disappearing. The industry as a self-contained pocket is
 disappearing. Crypto native apps become kind of a tiny fringe. And the label as he puts in his
 word becomes baggage. And the way that I think about this is it's very similar to a lot of people
 don't recall. I mean, I don't even recall this, but when stocks used to be quote-unquote internet
 stocks, you know, at the advent of the internet, there was actually a category of internet stocks.
 I believe it was internet stocks. Someone might call me out on this. It might have been technology
 stocks or something like this. Obviously, that label fell away and ultimately they were just stocks.
 You know, there's no sub-sect of the equity market of tech. So the future prediction is that
 the same is going to happen to crypto. There's not going to be kind of crypto stocks or crypto
 exchanges or crypto trading. And we're already seeing that with a lot of companies, Coinbase,
 Robinhood, several other good examples, effectively trying to be the place for absolutely everything,
 you know, for equities, for tokenized equities, for crypto assets, for securities, commodities,
 all the licensing prediction markets. And what does that mean? It means the lines of what is crypto
 become blurred as part of the broader conversation of this convergence. So I really like this
 article because I think it was thought-provoking. I also thought his point about there are certain
 things that should remain, like what deserves to survive permissionless access, global liquidity,
 and 24/7 markets. We're already seeing that outside of crypto. There's been a lot of
 news around NASDAQ's move to 24/7 markets and whether that's actually a good idea.
 Composability and selective user ownership. I would go a little bit farther and I think what
 deserves to survive is also the individual's right and control over their data. Hot on our
 heels of the privacy conversation. But look, like this raises a couple questions that I want
 Jesse and V to chime in on. First, what is pretty relevant is, is this actually even a new thought
 or a new concept? Yes, Jesse. Just like with everything crypto is learning the lessons of prior
 tech or prior parts of the financial market and shout out to Ribbit about a year or two ago,
 we wrote about how FinTech is dead. And the thesis behind that was essentially that FinTech
 has been incorporated into the retro financial system. And that's really what happening with
 crypto. And that was a real positive, as you saw names like Newbank and Revolut and Robinhood.
 Obviously, that's part of the crypto conversation, really growing and becoming important places for
 people that access money. And I think that crypto can also be compared to sort of what happened with
 the internet. I mean, we might not all remember it really well, but like there was a time of like
 true techno libertarianism, which was the belief that like the network could root around governments
 entirely. I remember like early on reading John Perry Barlow, who you know, started EFF,
 like thinking about how governments would have no authority in cyberspace. And what does that
 sound like to everybody here? It sounds a lot like how people thought crypto would be forever.
 And that belief really powered early internet, it powered how people talked about regulation,
 and it actually worked obviously until the internet became part of economic infrastructure.
 And that's really what happens when technology stops being just a subculture and becomes part
 of something real and bigger. And this sort of idea of what should be regulated and how sort of speaks
 to what we all work on, which is like, what does crypto want to be? Does it want to continue to be
 a small subculture that, you know, doesn't have to follow rules, doesn't have to interact with
 the government? I mean, I think what we've been seeing through the conversations through how people
 talk about regulators and legislation and wanting this market structure bill that I know we're going
 to talk about is that we want to be part of the regulatory conversation. So you really can't have
 it both ways is what a lot of people are realizing. And just to chime in here, because before we get
 to be John Perry Barlow, and in case anyone needs some serious nerd alpha to spit at their holiday
 cocktail parties, he was basically an internet cyber libertarian activist pioneer. And he was
 a founding member of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, EFF, which is a big nonprofit digital
 rights group. And it was founded to promote internet civil liberties. And I actually love that you
 brought him up, Jesse, because I feel like I'm constantly as an advocate for crypto, particularly
 in the legal and policy context, looking at the internet, looking back at the internet, the growth
 of the internet, the policy environment. The one difficulty that I always note, however, is that
 you forget, and obviously we were frankly children, we're not that old, we were children or not alive
 when a lot of this was happening in the internet context. I mean, we're not that old, we're actually
 quite young, we're just old in crypto. Okay, I just want to put that out there. But look, like,
 there was a lot of welcome to the internet. There was a positive environment in Congress where
 they wanted to make it a growth environment for the internet. And that is one of the reasons why
 there was this very important piece of legislation passed that effectively protects internet providers
 like Facebook and it exempts them from liability tied to wrongdoing on Facebook. We should probably
 have an episode to talk about that. Yes, yes, yes, section 230. There's a lot of constitutional
 kerfuffle over section 230. That's my new favorite word, by the way, it's so good.
 Anyway, so that environment was different. However, that being said, it's always informative to look
 back at this kind of evolution, these would be the internet or other emerging technologies
 to see if we can take any lessons from that. We jump in here on your thoughts around all of this
 and the article and where we are at this point. Yeah, I really love the history that you guys
 brought up because I think not just the rise of the internet, but the way that we approached it
 from a regulatory perspective has always kind of informed how we think about crypto regulation.
 It's sort of always been in the background, but there are so many good guests we could have on
 to talk about that. People that worked in those fights and are in crypto today, I think there's
 so much we can learn from that. But there have been so many takes on this article. I think it has
 like 6,000 likes on X by now. What I haven't really seen is a take from a policy perspective.
 If what he's saying is true, and I'll just start out by saying that I do largely agree with a lot
 of it, if what he is saying is true, should that change our approach to crypto policy and how?
 I want to talk about that a little bit, but I'll start by saying I do agree with his argument
 that something has shifted. I think we've all sort of felt it, and I think that's why it struck
 such a nerve is because a lot of us have been feeling that this year, but haven't
 really articulated it, at least I haven't. But you know, I was thinking back and you know when I
 started to really see signs of this was I was on the board of one of the Crypto and Trade
 Associations earlier this year, and we started seeing a real uptick in the number of member
 applications from companies that were pure crypto, right? They were either like a hybrid or sometimes
 just straight trad fire fintech. And it sort of caused us to revisit our founding principles and
 like what we wanted our membership to look like as a crypto trade association. And looking back,
 I think this sort of foreshadowed like everything that was going to come this year. And then like
 just now in my own job, and I'm sure you guys can speak to this too, in my own job, I feel the
 shift really concretely, right? So at Veda, we build vault infrastructure, which is just programmable
 smart contracts that let people access DeFi while we kind of extract away the complexity and handle
 all of the risk management and optimize the returns. So like for the first year of our
 company's life, our conversations were almost entirely with crypto native teams and protocols.
 But now we talk daily with institutional and fintech partners who, honestly, like even a year ago,
 I do not think they would have touched DeFi with the temper pole. And also they're not asking for
 like closed permission to lending pools, right? They're asking how to offer their customer's access
 to actual decentralized open permissionless protocols like off a like Uniswap, right? So
 from a policy perspective, I think that kind of inverts like the crypto policy playbook a little
 bit. Like I think, you know, for as long as I've been in crypto, and of course, like so many people
 who have been working really hard on this stuff for like years, even before any of us joined,
 I think for a long time crypto sort of operated under the assumption that the world would eventually
 adapt to us, right? That scale and adoption would force regulators to accommodate crypto.
 Basically the Uber model, right? Grow fast enough, become popular enough, and the rules will kind of
 be forced to bend to you. But I think what's happening now with crypto is kind of the opposite,
 which is as this technology integrates more into payments and fintech and financial markets,
 crypto itself is starting to adapt to the real world. And I want to stop and say like,
 I want to be clear about something, which is I don't think this shift is driven primarily by regulatory
 fear. Like I think there's this myth that safeguards and risk management and compliance only show up
 because founders are scared of regulators. And I hear that sometimes, right? We all hear it from
 like other lawyers we work with. But I think in reality, it doesn't match my own experience or
 the experience of a lot of other DeFi GCs that I talk to, right? I think in reality, these things
 show up because founders actually want to grow, like they want adoption. And they understand that
 to scale, users have to feel safe and they have to trust the systems that they're interacting with,
 right? And sure, like working with regulated institutions does force certain conversations.
 But I think more broadly, as crypto starts touching everyday users, I do sort of think the sense of
 responsibility changes. And it should, right? We're not, we're not in the purely like DJEN era of
 crypto anymore where it's like everything's caveat and tour. And I mean, I personally think that's a
 good thing. But I'm sure you guys have thoughts on this too. caveat. M tour means buyer beware,
 like you come, you deal with it. And that's really just to step in with the legal translation. It's
 actually a great term. I think your spot on beat and the only point I'll make is I feel like we're
 at this point where there's three categories of market participants. There's crypto natives,
 like the DJEN population. There's tradfi that's experimenting with crypto because pretty much
 every tradfi entity at this point, I feel safe in saying they're either doing something in crypto,
 they're doing something in crypto underground, or they're experimenting or researching
 some facet of crypto. Like that's what we're now at that point. If they are, then I'm like,
 what are you doing? Like on some facet of the technology to create cost efficiency for their
 customers. And then the middle are these crypto native hybrids. And the crypto native hybrids are
 growing faster than anything else. Like I would never would have called Robinhood of crypto native
 hybrid, you know, years ago, but now I would put them squarely in that camp, meaning sometimes you
 have crypto entities that have branched out more into tradfi, but more increasingly we're seeing
 tradfi that's kind of gone all in on crypto. BlackRock is another example. You know, they mentioned a
 week or two that their single most profitable product line is the Bitcoin ETFs. I mean,
 just think about this, this is BlackRock. Okay, it's shocking how far we've come and how profitable
 this industry is for traditional market players. That's why we're seeing this convergence. Jesse,
 you're going to say something. Yeah, I just want to like add to what you both said and something that
 the commented on really rang true to me, because we all existed in a crypto sphere where everyone
 really feared regulators. And they pretty much were like regulators, we're going to come in and
 they're going to force us to use KYC. And they're going to impose BSA on us, which just doesn't work.
 And I don't know what to do with that. And like, we just need a fight against it at all cost.
 But what we're realizing as this like network of incentives has changed, is that like KYC
 doesn't have to be some top down movement where the state is coming in and like storming the castle.
 But rather, it's been inching in sideways. And largely through that middle group, you identified
 KK where when founders realize that they can't scale, they can't partner, they can't touch as
 much real money, quote unquote, as they want to without it. That's sort of where we're seeing KYC
 or the like tools surrounding KYC that's just sort of a shorthand, like inch in here.
 And so we don't even need to wait for these laws to come in to have all these projects begin to
 think about how do I incorporate some sort of checks and risk management, whether it be KYC,
 whether it be some sort of cybersecurity check. I mean, I have been engaging with the company
 chainalysis since I was at the DOJ and it first started, right? And at the beginning, it was a
 tool that the government only used. And then at a certain point, all these projects, at the very least,
 were at least incorporating chainalysis, TRM something, you know, to say that they had like
 that check at least for sanction addresses, et cetera. And that was like the baseline for so long.
 But that had that was inched in not because government said you have to, but because that
 was sort of what was required for either users or investors at the time. And so those kinds of tools
 like for better or for worse, like I'm not making a comment on good or bad, but for better or for
 worse, they're going to become essential parts of the stack. Now, they're still going to remain a
 part of the sector, just like there's a part of the internet, like the dark web that doesn't have
 sort of the same rules and standards. And we're going to have a part of the sector that remains as is,
 but it's increasingly seeming likely that that's not going to be the majority of it.
 Yeah, I feel like we're four-week progress at my translation moment, just to refresh,
 especially with our new listeners, KYC, no-year client. These are the procedures that every regulated
 financial institution, including money service business, centralized exchange, MSB, have to adhere
 to, like they have to do KYC, know your client processes to determine who their clients are,
 and these processes are heavily manual, which is the difficulty. And would they have to do this
 because of the BSA, the Bank Secrecy Act, and I'm sure we'll have an episode on that and
 elicit fine. Yeah, I feel like we're kind of going through like an identity crisis a little bit,
 right? So, like I think for me, what that means is like we can't keep operating like a permanent
 opposition party. Like I think that posture made a lot of stems when like our very existence was
 threatened for, you know, like four years or whatever. But I don't think it makes sense
 so much anymore when crypto is just, you know, like Jesse said, starting to touch like real
 economic activity, starting to touch just like every day, like normie users, right? Because I think
 the reality is, you know, the moment you start to touch payment rails, you're probably going to
 have to do KYC somewhere. If you're dealing with institutional counterparties, you're going to need
 some sort of guardrails. And if you touch things like custody or credit or real world assets or
 securities, right? Like the whole everyone's needs anonymous forever just doesn't, that doesn't work
 anymore. And so like that's not to say, you know, like does the BSA need reform? Yes, absolutely.
 Are DeFi risks genuinely different? And do they need like tailored approaches? Of course.
 And should parts of the stack remain open and permissionless? In my view, yes, right? I personally
 believe that the blockchain layer and decentralized DeFi protocols should remain neutral and open
 and permissionless. And then KK, right? Like are there technologies like ZK that can help
 reconcile a lot of these conflicts? Yes, absolutely, right? And I'm sure like you have a lot to say on
 that. But I do think that like we sort of need to move on move beyond the just like crypto purest
 position and start to like consider a lot of these things seriously. And consider them not
 in the context of like, are we betraying like crypto ideology or core values or are we like
 selling out or whatever, right? I think this is actually something that we should celebrate. Like
 I don't think we should see it as a loss. I think we should see it as look, this technology is
 actually proving to be really useful. And the fact that like it's becoming mainstream is actually a
 marker of our success. So that's how I would like urge people to think about it. This this
 transition. I love that optimism. And I also love like, look, what's interesting here, I'll just say
 this. The three of us, I believe, are technically elder millennials. So elder millennials, which I
 hate that term are 1980 to 1986, birth years. I'm not going to tell you how old we are, but you know,
 they may or may not be in that window. Okay. And what I like to think, and I may have used this
 in a job interview, is that elder millennials, we're at a critical advocacy leadership point
 in time, because elder millennials are the few, like the very narrow point of the universe, where
 we remember life without cell phones and the internet, like I remember the it was all
 or, or like AI, right? Like, but we also know and understand like the groundbreaking technology
 that the kids use. Okay. So being able to branch those two worlds, it's absolutely essential in
 policy right now, because we need to be able to speak to the builders to the brilliant 25 year old
 DJs. But we can also speak 75 year old legislator, and I am fluent in both. And that is actually unique.
 We need more people to be able to understand how these two sectors of both the financial markets
 and the policy world speak. And that's what makes us effective general councils and advocates.
 So on that point, I think it's really important, and this feeds really well into our next topic,
 is the state of crypto market structure, because there is definitely a thought
 that the last remaining barrier to the full embrace of crypto from the trad five perspective
 is legislation is full clarity, which would theoretically come with the clarity act,
 the crypto market structure bill. And I want V to give us an update with where we are, because
 we did see some news last week on Thursday, David Sacks said that the markup for the clarity act,
 which this is the landmark crypto market structure bill is confirmed for January. So before I hand
 it over to bill V, I just want to build to talk about the bill V talk about the bill. I just want
 to refresh that how a bill becomes a law. There's amazing cartoon that we can put in the show notes.
 But the bill is introduced. It's referred to a committee. The committee has hearings.
 So this is when experts testify and information is gathered and the policy environment and crypto,
 you know, makes its voice heard. There's a markup session as part of the committee hearings. And
 this is actually a key point because this is when the bill is revised. And this is when, you know,
 so kind of this is when crypto has the real chance to to be heard. You know, obviously there's a
 multitude of opportunities to educate legislators as they go through this process, but the markup
 session is really important. Then the committee votes after the markup session, and then the bill
 goes to the floor, either the house or the Senate. So that's where we are in markup in January. And
 it's really important that we progress while we still have kind of the momentum and the support
 behind getting this bill done. The tell us more, where are we? What are we going to see in the new
 year? Yeah, so I so much moved last week. Like, I think the the headline is that Senator Cynthia
 Lumis, like the the real crypto OG in the Senate, she's retiring next year. And I think that matters
 more than people might realize. Like, I think it's creating real urgency, especially from her
 side to get a market structure bill done while she's still in office. Like, we need to land this,
 right? Like, by next year. So on the democratic side of Senate thinking, I think it's worth emphasizing
 that the 12 Democrats are not a monolith, like they each have their own priorities and internal
 dynamics. But I do think many of them differ heavily to Senator Mark Warner, particularly on
 DeFi and illicit finance and intelligence related concerns. And you know, those issues remain like
 really big sticking points, right? I think another interesting thing to look out for is
 Senator Gallego has been, I think, relatively quiet so far. But I think he could end up playing
 a really important like mediator or statesman like role, similar to what he did during genius
 once things start to really move. And then I think I saw an article come out saying that there's
 growing tension around Senator Gillibrand, who's been involved in crypto market structure efforts
 for a long time. So all this is to say, like, even among Democrats who are engaged, there's not,
 I don't think one unified like dem position that you can even negotiate with. And then
 substantively, one of the big issues is still DeFi, right? The committee has been
 really tight-lipped about the latest draft. I think a lot of us saw that some industry
 participants were allowed to view it last week, but like only in the room, no copies, no photos.
 And even Democratic staff reportedly had really little time to review the language
 before last week's meeting. Only two Democratic senators attended that meeting,
 and I think that might just reflect like timing rather than the lack of interest or engagement.
 And I think one thing that was really interesting about some of the recent meetings was that
 tradfi was in the room, right? We had not just a number of crypto industry participants, but also
 SIFMA and the financial services forum, and a few tradfi banks, right? So I'm hearing that
 there will remain a DeFi exemption in the bill, but it's going to be extremely narrow, right? So
 like control will be really tightly defined, or defined tightly. The BRCA language is included,
 which is good, but there's just large brackets of the DeFi exemption part that are still bracketed.
 And I think it'll likely be one of the most contested areas as negotiations continue.
 And I think both industry and the SIFMA's of the world are already pushing back.
 On illicit finance, the language of the latest bill, I believe largely tracks clarity, so no big
 surprises there. But this, you know, of course, remains like a really big priority for Warner
 and Democrats that are aligned with him. So I think he said, in terms of timing, like,
 I think, you know, we've been hearing that there'll be a markup for like months now, and it keeps
 getting pushed. So the latest is that it's going to happen mid January, but again, that could easily
 slip, right? Democrats, I think, are signaling that they may not feel ready. I think some of them
 may have felt, or maybe feeling a little burned after genius, where they felt really rushed to
 vote it out of committee. And they voted for it, expecting that there would be changes from the
 Republicans in the final bill. And then they saw like totally new texts appear once it got to the
 floor. So I wonder if that experience is making them a little bit more cautious this time around
 with market structure. And I think if they're not comfortable by mid January when the markup
 might happen, this could turn into a more partisan markup than leadership would like.
 And then I think the final factor is you can't ignore the White House. They are really determined
 to get this done. So they're applying a lot of pressure behind the scenes to move it forward.
 I mean, I, one thing I'm interested to see is whether Democrats are going to kind of be fine
 waiting. Most of them are not up for re-election next year. And so there may be less political
 urgency on their side, which potentially gives them more leverage than people assume to
 wait and push for the changes that they want to see in the bill, especially if the midterms start
 to look more favorable for the Democrats, especially on the House in the House.
 That's kind of what I'm looking for. Jesse, before you jump in, I just want to define
 SIFMA is the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. So it's a major US trade
 group. It's really the voice of the nation's securities industry. They represent broker dealers,
 asset managers, investment banks. And these point is absolutely there. What's really interesting
 about this environment is cryptos at the table, tradvise at the table, tradvise not
 trying to kill this bill. In fact, a lot of tradvise industries are supporting the bill.
 Now, there are certain points, like there are rumors that Terry Duffy, who is the CEO of CME,
 who the nickname for him is the sixth commissioner because CME is extremely powerful in the commodities
 markets. There's rumors that CME and other major stakeholders have had a very big voice on,
 for example, the DeFi provisions that may not be beloved by crypto. Of course, they're going to
 have differing opinions, which also raises complications when you have tradfi and crypto
 at the same trade table. But having SIFMA there and vocally participating in discussions in this
 bill, it's good, actually. It means that there's more of an impetus from the street in moving
 legislation forward. And then the last thing I'll also note is, look, we're now at a point where
 the house has a version of the bill. The Senate has a version of the bill. So my biggest hope and
 all of our hope in seeing progress at this bill is that this markup process in January hopefully
 merges the House past Clarity Act with elements from the Senate's discussion drafts. And we get
 to a point where there's a consensus because that is a huge impediment at this point in time. And
 if we don't get to that point, if the versions remain too far apart, then that is the death
 now for this bill. Jesse, chime in. I just want to pretend to be Catherine for a second. BRCA
 as well for definition, blockchain regulatory certainty act. It's about like protecting developers
 and non custodial blockchain developers in particular. But I guess one thing I'll say because, you know,
 this is our last episode of the year, and I want to be positive going into the new year. But like,
 there is something really amazing about the fact that like, Dems have engaged and they continue to
 engage. And they've been pretty clear from the start about the fact that they have three issues
 that need to be addressed. And those continue to be the issues. And I think they're refining
 them a little bit and like Republicans are helping here and there, but it's illicit finance, which
 we talk about all the time. And I know no one else wants to hear me talk about that more.
 And token classification, which essentially like, don't be able to classify a token as a
 non security, even though it acts as security and a bunch of other stuff related to that.
 But the ethics part, I just don't think we've touched on enough here, because I really think
 that is going to get in the way here if we're not careful, because essentially what the Democrats
 have been saying and some Republicans have been agreeing on is that public officials shouldn't
 be able to abuse their offices to enrich themselves with crypto, right? The same concept that should
 apply to traditional markets. We've obviously talked before on the show, how the ethics rules
 associated with, you know, trading and Congress and with other political positions isn't like
 that isn't fully defined. It could probably be changed. But like, why add to those? And instead,
 let's start fresh with crypto and make sure that public officials can't enrich themselves.
 And it really speaks to how important it is that the crypto industry and the political movement
 associated with the crypto industry understands that like a lot of times we are in an echo chamber.
 And we need to make sure that like the people outside this echo chamber respect our industry
 as much as we respect it. And also that they don't just see it as corrupt. And I know that
 we're going to talk more about that with some of the New York time stuff that's been coming out.
 But like, there is a huge contingency that still thinks that crypto is just about breaking the law.
 And until you find those people to talk to them, you don't realize how prolific that narrative is.
 And so that starts from the bottom, but it also starts from the top. And so how we regulate it
 and think about it is going to be really important to making sure that this narrative associated
 with crypto is dead. But we should call it like crypto is becoming part of the larger economic system
 is going to have to be maintained throughout a hundred percent. And the other thing that we have
 to account for is there's still a number of democratic politicians that like to use the
 anti-crypto narrative as a persuasive campaigning technique. And to be fair, I want to give them
 credit for a second because look, I'm on the board of the Illinois Blockchain Association.
 And we really advocated very hard to kill an Illinois bit licensed esque regime called
 DACPA. That's the acronym of the law. Because what we saw in the original text was overregulation.
 And we were also very alarmed by the language of the text. It would capture like tiny builders
 and regulate them like centralized exchange. And we're not anti-regulation. We just didn't think
 this was the right move. So we worked collaboratively with Illinois to get the bill to a more manageable
 reasonable state because it was clear that we weren't going to be able to kill it. And then
 the governor of Illinois, upon signing the bill, tweeted something about how we was like cracking
 down on crypto fraud and some reference to crypto bros in Washington, which by the way,
 makes me incensed because obviously the three of us do not appreciate the crypto bro narrative.
 As I say this, as a serious general counsel, wearing a tiny cent to have. But, you know,
 we're serious people and we're women and we're in crypto bros can't pull off this head
 and you that we're rocking today. Exactly. Okay. But so there is a democratic narrative of kind
 of like stamp out crypto fraud, bad crypto. And that means that we have more work to do in educating
 all legislators, regulators and Republicans and Democrats about how this works and how this technology
 can frankly improve the lives of everyday Americans and constituents. And there are obviously a multitude
 of use cases there. So look, like this is actually a natural next step to our next segment.
 There were a couple big, big news items last week that came out of the CFTC.
 One, Mike Seeleg was confirmed as CFTC chair, which is actually fantastic news on a number of
 fronts. One, we have a CFTC chair. That's just great. There was a lot of drama surrounded Brian
 surrounding Brian Quintanza's nomination. We won't get into it today. But Mike Seeleg, I believe all
 three of us know Mike. I worked with Mike when he was actually one of my outside counsel when he
 was at Wilkie Far. He's really smart. He worked very closely with Neil, who's now the GC of or
 C L O of polymarket. Really, really great team. He knows crypto. He spent the past couple of years
 as general counsel of the SEC task force. I don't, I don't really know anyone who has anything bad
 to say about Mike, especially his intellectual horsepower. So fantastic. We have a leader in place,
 okay? And he was in the private sector. He went to the SEC. He went to the CFTC. Pretty typical. We
 also saw Caroline fam who was for now kind of a long time, the one remaining CFTC commissioner,
 who was, as we talked about in a previous episode, on a tear of progress and, you know, advice and
 rulemaking and work in the CFTC. She announced or the news broke that she is leaving to become
 chief legal officer of moon pay. So big news all around. And we also hope to see more SEC
 commissioners, CFTC commissioners confirmed hopefully as soon as March or at least progress there.
 But what we are seeing and a lot of people don't understand this is a revolving door.
 Private sector government, private sector government, private sector government. And I think all three
 of us are familiar with this. You know, Jesse from the Department of Justice perspective,
 V from the SEC perspective, me, I was a partner in private practice for many years in white
 color defense. And I will say the vast majority of my ex partners at King and holding or ex senior
 level government officials, either federal prosecutors, SEC enforcement. And there was huge value there
 because they had the mentality and the view they had sat at the other side of the table and they
 had the relationships if I'm being cynical. So I see this revolving door as kind of a natural
 value government value to the private sector, private sector gives value to the government.
 But Jesse, give us your take, especially from your perspective as a longtime federal prosecutor.
 Yeah, I came from government and I incredibly value my time there. And a lot of my closest
 friends in the industry shout out be also came from government. And I didn't stop because I didn't
 like leave because I stopped believing in public service. I left because I believed in the tech
 and I wanted to be building it and building the rules right. And I just don't think you can do
 that unless you really understand both sides of the table. And to be honest, I say that I've been in
 crypto for 10 years, which is true. But I didn't truly understand the crypto industry until I went
 and worked in it. In fact, I think it, I wish it was kind of mandatory to be in both. Although,
 I don't know if that would work in our current form of democracy. But I think that there should
 be like a learning period required because if you don't have that cross pollination, you don't get
 good policy. And in crypto, we've had like an incredible amount of great cross pollination.
 And that's been really wonderful for the industry. I mean, summer at blockchain association is a
 great recent example. You mentioned a few other ones summer, Mercinger, who's CEO of the biggest
 or one of the biggest crypto trade associations. She is an XC FTC commissioner and she left to become
 CEO of blockchain association. She's fantastic. Go on, Jesse. Thank you, moderator. Thank you.
 So in other words, like, I don't see this revolving door as necessarily bad or corrupt. And in fact,
 it's less of a revolving door and more like an air gap door or something like that. I hadn't
 quite really worked through the metaphor, but it can only really work, though, if there are rules
 and laws in place that make sure that there are restrictions associated with going in and out
 of government. And there are a bunch of these rules. And I don't think anyone wants to hear me
 lay out the ethical guidelines or the criminal rules, etc. But it's all around the fact that like,
 it's not just about stopping bad behaviors by individuals, but about protecting credibility
 of the institutions, which is something I believe in immensely. Because we don't want anyone thinking
 that a ref is like auditioning for a future job rather than making rules that they think are fair.
 But the hard thing in all these conversations is like coming down to the distinction between
 writing general rules that apply to an industry or apply to a technology or apply to like a larger
 financial system that might impact an industry or deciding specific outcomes on who the winner
 and who's the loser. And to me, this like ties back in an interesting way to the ethics conversation
 of market structure and the general narrative of crypto in the midst of the crypto is dead,
 joining the other industries. Because market structure ethics and this revolving door ethics
 conversation together are really two versions of the same question. So like, are we regulating markets
 or are we creating winners? I love that. And one other thing I'll note before V jumps in,
 I heard something super cool the other week. I had this in my kind of crypto development summary
 on LinkedIn this week is the US government's actually launched a tech force, which will borrow
 secondies from big tech and crypto to work on kind of US government tech. And this goes to our point,
 I love that so much because I feel like, look, the government is acknowledging that some of the
 best brains are not working for the government right now. So it's like, let's borrow their brains.
 And then these secondies get a new perspective. So this and this has existed for a while. I mean,
 this was a huge thing after World War II as well, like LBJ was really into this. So this has happened
 many, many times throughout history, especially around the space race and Kennedy. So it's not
 the first time and it won't be the last time, hopefully. It's just really important that we
 understand each other well and you can't really do that unless you really know people in one and the
 other. Yeah, and you do have there are rules in place which are agency specific. I remember when
 people would come to King and Spalding my law from from the government, they would not be able to
 work on a number of matters, like they would effectively be exed out of certain matters that
 they worked on as regulators. But I know that each agency has a different set of rules.
 Pete, tell us your thoughts on this and especially from the SEC perspective.
 Yeah, I so I agree with all of that. And I think it's especially important when you're
 talking about regulating like a new technology, right? I mean, the reality is is no one is going
 to understand a new and like quickly evolving technology better than the people who are actually
 building it and like working on it day to day. And that's not it's not the regulators, right?
 So like having that kind of expertise in the government is I can really, really critical,
 but I'll say this again. We do need to get rid of that ethics rule that like bans
 government employees from holding any crypto if they want to work on crypto matters. So to Jesse's
 like ethics point, I agree that it's really, really important. And I don't I don't know what it's
 like at other like government entities or agencies, but at the SEC, the rule we had was actually
 really broad, but like pretty like easy to understand. So it was basically once you're starting to have
 conversations like with prospective employers, you have to tell the ethics office and you have
 to step away from any work involving that company, right? So the question is like,
 how broadly is that defined? At the SEC, it was defined pretty broadly, like you can still do
 your job, but you can't work on any investigations or exams or policy matters that could potentially
 affect that prospective employer. And then certainly once you've accepted an offer, you can't work on
 any of that stuff. So I don't know like Jesse, if it was that broad at the DOJ, but at the SEC,
 probably because like, you know, they touch the capital markets and like a lot of potential
 companies, like it was it was pretty structured and it was pretty broad.
 Yeah, DOJ had something very similar and where it became particularly relevant is like, as you
 know, KK was talking about a lot of prosecutors go to work at law firms. And so you need to disclose
 who you're interviewing with, because you can't be on cases sort of opposite to that law firm,
 which actually is a it's a big deal for prosecutors that are working on fraud cases,
 because there are certain number of, you know, law firms that do many of those. But the want the
 regulators in the financial markets, and you can think about banking regulators as well, their rules
 are even stricter, because obviously there's a lot of revolving door air gap door between
 banking regulators and banks. And we've just been seeing it for a lot longer than crypto,
 because banks have been a lot around longer. And the rules are pretty strict. It's just the
 level of enforcing those rules has changed a lot, depending on our period of history.
 And also like the ethics obligation, it continues even after your app like in the private sector,
 right? So like, if you join a company or a law firm, depending on your level of seniority at the
 SEC, you actually cannot represent your employer before the SEC for some period of time that ranges
 from like a few months to like one or two years, I think, right? So there are there are rules like
 to sort of, you know, address some of the conflicts that arise with the revolving door.
 Yep. Yep. That's a really good point. So look, this is good news. I think good and bad when you see
 these departures from the government, I would love to see more thought leaders in crypto be in
 high level government positions, because it obviously gives them part, not necessarily to advocate on
 behalf of crypto. We expect our regulators to do what they think is best pursuant to their mandate
 and to the law, but the fact that they would have this institutional understanding or this
 understanding of how the technology works, obviously, that would be fantastic. So again,
 I'm very happy to see someone like Chair See Lake in the sea fully understanding the technology
 itself. So that's great news. So that's maybe one piece of crypto good news. I want to wrap with
 it one other piece of crypto good news, particularly important as we round out this year to end on a
 positive note. This week, I read that the Islamic affairs and charitable activities department has
 introduced a new service, allowing charitable associations in the Emirate to accept donations
 and crypto. So this is actually fantastic. This means in Dubai, charities can now accept charitable
 donations via crypto. So there's been a little bit of a theme on crypto good news. But what I love
 to do is I love to cover this because I think it's important to spotlight use cases where
 crypto is actively trying to help and engage with their community. And there are so many
 of those. It's not dead. It's not dead. I mean, and here's a PSA this year for Christmas. Hopefully,
 my brother and sister are walking watching, but I asked them to bring their hardware wallets that
 I had gifted to them to my parents house. And I will be giving my nieces more crypto for Christmas.
 So everybody walk the walk, gift your baby nieces and nephews Bitcoin. Like, come on,
 what is going to pay for their college? Is it going to be Ford stock or is it going to be Bitcoin?
 I mean, as a lover of a Ford truck, don't get me wrong. So no shade on Ford. Anyway,
 I also want to take a special moment. I'm going to let V and Jesse each say something that they're
 thankful for or a resolution. But on my front, my hope for 2026 is that the New York Times
 takes a second look at their crypto coverage. But I also want to say thank you, everyone,
 for listening for being with us on this journey. We are grateful for our listeners and our viewers.
 We really feedback, keep it coming. It's been a crazy year in crypto and policy. And we want to
 keep rocking with you. So Jesse, give us some, give us some fun to round out the year.
 I mean, let's just start with New York Times for a second. They publish an article about how women
 are ruining the workplace. So I think they lost the, like the whole part of the story here. They
 really lost the plot. Yeah. What was the headline? Like, what was this? We're being in our ruining,
 the why women are ruining the workplace. I don't even want to get there. I shouldn't even
 mentioned it. But like, come on, guys. You're triggering me, Jesse. You're triggering me.
 I am really grateful for the two of you guys and how you've kept me positive and deep in the technical
 side of crypto for so many years. And I've reminded me, just like, you know, the listeners, just like
 many of the people who know who they are listening or supporting all of us, they've, you know, really
 kept us positive in the space. There's been a lot of ups and downs over the past 10 years or,
 you know, how many years we've known each other. And without each other, I don't know if we would
 have continued and gotten through it. And we will continue to do so. So thanks, y'all, for being on
 our team. Love it. The guests. Okay. So I hate New Year's resolutions. I don't believe in them,
 but I did want to just thank all of our listeners and viewers. Like, we're so grateful for all of
 you guys and for all of the feedback we've gotten, both positive and constructive. Like,
 it's been a really crazy year in crypto and policy. But we really do hope everyone gets to rest and
 relax these holidays. And we love you guys all. So thanks for tuning in every week.
 I am so thankful for all of the boss women in crypto and the men who are listening and watching,
 keep building, keep working. Great way to round out the year. Happy holidays. Happy New Year.
 And we will see you not next week, the week after for your next episode of Decks in the City.
 Thanks for listening.
