TITLE: Will Every Company Have Its Own Stablecoin? Yes, Says Stripe's Bridge
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1nTyat1n6rQ
VIDEO_ID: 1nTyat1n6rQ

TRANSCRIPT:
We just think that this is going to become a core part of stablecoin
 money movement. That people are just going to want the money to be their own.
 Let's say I'm building a neo bank and I'm sitting on billions of dollars of assets
 and I'm doing that on stablecoins. Why would I not want all the economics from that?
 Hi everyone. Welcome to Unchained. You're no hype resource for all things crypto.
 I'm your host, Laura Shin. Aptos is the no compromise infrastructure for global financial markets.
 Fast, reliable, and 100 times more cost efficient than other blockchains.
 See for yourself why Aptos is the chain of choice for institutions, users, and developers alike.
 At the Aptos experience, October 15th and 16th in Brooklyn.
 Mantula is pioneering blockchain for banking, a revolutionary new category at the intersection
 of tradfi and web3. Follow Mantle, underscore official to learn more.
 I'm here with Zach Abrams, co-founder and CEO of Bridge. Welcome, Zach.
 Hey, Laura. Excited to be here.
 Yeah, excited to have you. So Bridge was acquired last year by Stripe, which at the time was the
 largest crypto acquisition. It's since been eclipsed. We don't have to go on that.
 It didn't last long. Yeah. I mean, after the election, just everybody was like
 getting their horses ready for the race. All right. So since then, Stripe has announced a
 bunch of things. Like it's blockchain tempo. There's been a lot of eyeballs on their next
 moving crypto. And today, Bridge is announcing a new platform called open issuance. So tell me
 about it. Yeah, we're very excited. We actually, the original idea for Bridge
 was that we thought that everyone was going to want their own stable coin. It turned out back
 in 2022, the market wasn't quite ready for it. And we needed more regulatory clarity.
 But we're extremely excited. Open issuance is a platform through which any business,
 whether it's a bank or a marketplace or a fintech can create their own stable coin. And we are
 really excited about this because the market itself, we think that folks are going to want
 to control their dollar and they're going to want to be able to program those dollars to work
 uniquely well for the platforms that they're building. Before open issuance, you kind of had
 two big issuers or even today, you have these two big issuers that dominate the stable coin
 market. 85% of all stable coins outstanding come from those two companies. But they're
 very specific in how they run those companies. They're focused on AUM and they control what
 blockchains that you can issue on to. They control the mint and burn fees that happen. And as a result,
 a bunch of use cases for stable coins just aren't possible or aren't economically viable. And so
 we think this is super important for growing the stable coin ecosystem. And we think it's super
 important so that all different types of platforms that want to come and take advantage of stable
 coins can do so. So we're very excited about it. Yeah. So I understand the problem that you laid out
 there. But then if I think about a world with many stable coins, then it to me sounds like the
 fragmentation issue that people talk about and defy a lot. So describe what this world will look
 like once this is kind of more widely used. Is it that it'll be one way for the businesses
 themselves? And then every day users won't know kind of this is happening or just talk a little
 bit about like how this world will look. Yeah. And I'll go into that. And but maybe before
 talking about that question, I'll talk like more specifically about some of the problems it solves.
 And then you know, the sort of flip that question on like what it would look like if there were only
 two to issuers. And so one of the first use cases for bridge was cross border payments. And we had,
 you know, this company Zulu, they were one of our first customers. They were moving money
 between the US or between Columbia and the US. And so they would they would take, you know,
 Colombian pesos, convert them into stable coins, send those stable coin to bridge,
 and then we would convert those back into dollars. That flow of funds is burning stable coins.
 That is like the way issuers think of that. And because their businesses are focused on
 accumulating as much AUM as possible and making interest off of those payments,
 that is a flow that is not economically interesting to them. And so, you know,
 they charge burn fees to get out of those stable coins. Well, those burn fees now have gotten to
 such a point where the costs of moving cross-border payments through stable coin rails at times is
 more expensive than fiat. And as the results, stable coins are going to be unlikely to solve
 the cross-border payment problem unless there are issuers or folks who want to issue stable coins
 that don't care as much about AUM. They're using them for payments use cases to save costs in
 other places through the system. And so these are the types of problems where you have two folks,
 a very specific business model. They've done amazing things for this for the stable coin space,
 but the stable coin space will only be one tenth or one one hundredth the size that it needs to be.
 Another example is like, let's say you're building a bank and you want to pass on rewards to your
 customers. You know, that's not really possible with current stable coin issuers.
 But just to explain why that is, you're talking about because the truss reads are held by circle
 and tether. So, okay, got it. Exactly. And their businesses are driven by earning the, you know,
 taking that yield. That's their revenue. So if they give that revenue to someone else, then there's
 no business. And so they're not economically aligned with a lot of the, you know,
 neo banks who want to build, you know, competitive products on stable coins. And so we just view
 stable coin issuance as this very important gap in the market to enable a bunch of different use
 cases for stable coins that maybe some folks just don't want to enable. Their business models are
 not aligned with them solving those specific problems. And then to come back to flipping on
 the question on a set, the other thing that we believe very deeply is that stable coins are going
 to be huge. You know, there's going to be many trillions of dollars of stable coins. And it is,
 you know, while it can be hard to envision a situation where there are tons and tons and tons
 of different stable coins, it's also really hard to envision a situation where there's only two.
 And you have trillions of dollars of stable coins managed by two companies. And everybody is like
 building and issuing and moving money on chain and all this stuff. And it's just two companies
 that are managing all the treasuries, like the entirety of the world's economic system would kind
 of topple over and by this oligopoly. The world we want actually explain that because I think,
 you know, what we have traditionally seen in history is that when it comes to business,
 there are a few dominant players in each sector. So why is it that you don't think that that will
 happen here? I think that there are some markets where there end up where there are, you know,
 you end up in like monopolistic situations. But then there are other markets where the market
 just wants alternatives. It will not allow one company to win the entirety of the market. And
 like payment processing, which is the business that stripes in, is a great example. You know,
 it, you know, there's Stripe and there's Addian, but there's also world pay and checkout and so on.
 The market wants, you know, multiple processors. That is like to de-risk their business. Some
 processors focus on like different aspects, you know, different type processing for different
 types of companies, because the market is just so big. And we think the stablecoin market is going
 to be very similar to that. You know, the systemic risk that would happen if you just had two issuers
 and they were investing in all the treasuries would be too great. You know, the market will
 want alternatives and will want to de-risk. And actually, so just to understand one thing,
 so I understand like from the business's perspective why they would do this, but like,
 from the user side, is the user going to be using so many different stablecoin? Like,
 that's the part where I'm like, I don't think that's going to happen.
 Yeah, that's a great question. And there's two answers to that question. So first, we think that
 all these platforms will have their own dollar that they control and that they benefit from,
 so that they could program it uniquely for their platform and they can control what blockchains
 that goes on to like if they build their own L2, it will be that they can ensure that it's available
 on that L2 instantly, that they get the economic benefits from and they could pass those back to
 their users. And we are building an interoperability network that will enable folks to move those
 stablecoins between any of these platforms, one for one, and permissionlessly. So if you're using
 Wallet A and you have a stablecoin there and you send it to Wallet B, it will seamlessly convert
 into Wallet B's stablecoin where they then accrue the yield and so on. And all of this will happen
 without the user knowing. That's one answer. The second thing is that we believe that stablecoins
 will just become core infrastructure and over time, this like branding of stablecoins will
 recede into the background and a lot of these applications will just show that you have digital
 dollars and you will not care who the issuer of those dollars are. You're just, you just have your
 money in Revolut or you have your money in dollar app or you have your money in wise or you have
 your money in remitly. And as you send it, these dollars change shape for yield attribution and
 control and so on. And like I imagine there is a cost to all that swapping. So how does that get
 paid? So through through through the bridge and great question. So through the bridge APIs,
 we we convert everything one for one. So, you know, one dollar is sent and one dollar is delivered
 into the wallet. We abstract away the gas and any fees that might come from our service.
 The the the interoperability network that we're building will not have any bridge fees and will
 have the ability to easily abstract away the gas that folks might pay so that you can ensure
 that dollars are delivered one for one. Like a great example is like you don't want let's say
 you're sending money between, you know, Coinbase wallet and like, you know, Phantom or something
 and you send a dollar, you don't want, you know, 0.9999999 cents to arrive. And so we've like our
 our APIs and our system abstracts that away. Okay, got it. Yeah, that's like a cost you're willing
 to bear because in order to grow the business, like you can make your money elsewhere, right?
 Yeah. And to your point, I do think that like USDC and USDTE will remain, you know,
 very popular brand like branded assets that will accrue meaningful amounts of liquidity
 and like DeFi and trading and this sort of thing. Like I think that's that is an area where stable
 points have very material network effects. And it helps to aggregate around one party to have
 better liquidity, you know, so you can place deeper trades and so on. And that's like a very
 important benefit that they bring to the ecosystem. And as a result, that's going to become more
 and more and more important over time. Okay, so this is, you know, I don't know how you would
 want to count it, but it's clearly one of the first products that you have been launching since
 this right back position. So why was it that that was like something that you decided to
 focus on kind of early on? Like is this something you're hearing from a lot of businesses or
 yeah, I just be curious like why this, why you chose to focus here?
 Yeah, we, I've spent like my whole career in Fintech and one of the things I really like about
 Fintech is that it's very financially rational. And like an example that the like that easily
 comes to mind is like Robinhood, you know, Robinhood won, not because it's like some genius invention,
 but because they had free trading and everyone else cost five dollars. And for me issuing your
 own stablecoin was similar, you know, is like, let's say I'm building a neo bank and I'm sitting
 on billions of dollars of assets. And I'm doing that on stablecoins. Why would I not want
 all the economics from that? You know, why would I like outsource the management of those
 thresholds, not have my assets, you know, segregated in some capacity, because, you know, that presents
 higher risk to have it, you know, all pulled in one place, you know, and why would I, you know, if I
 become totally dependent on it, then all of a sudden in year two or year three, if I want to scale
 and do cross border payments or some other use case that necessitates, you know, burning or something,
 surprise fees come in and so on. Like you don't want to be building Zenga on, you know, Facebook
 and all of a sudden they like change your interest and goodbye, goodbye business. So it just made
 financial sense to me that folks would want this. And it was it was hard for me to envision that
 stablecoins would scale without this infrastructure because it fills a very important gap for folks
 who will want to build core payments or FinTech or bank applications on top of stablecoins. And at
 first, it was like that was it because because at the time, you know, we really didn't have
 folks who wanted it because the perceived risk of issuing a stablecoin was really hot because this
 was back in 2022 after Terra Luna and after FTX. And then we've seen over the last six months as
 we've had regulatory clarity that there has been a ton of interest in building with this platform.
 And, you know, we saw that with with native markets and USDA, we saw that with Metamask,
 you know, we've we've seen that with Dakota, we've seen that with Phantom, you know, and we think
 we'll see that with every major platform that they will want to control their dollar.
 Yeah, you know what is so interesting? Back when the Genius Act was passed, I was kind of outraged
 about that clause that the issuers couldn't pass off the interest. But now I'm suddenly realizing
 that that sort of hobbles them competitively, which is kind of I don't know how I didn't realize
 that before. But in a way, like what you're describing is so fascinating to me because it's
 almost like your individual money market account that you just have in your own wallet or something
 like that. And you like, but it's but it acts like kind of liquid cash. So that's fascinating.
 Exactly. I mean, it really is like a stablecoin really is a better form of a dollar. You you
 or a better transactional asset because you you know, today with a dollar, you can either save it,
 you know, by putting it in a savings account, in which case it's harder to transact with and so on,
 or you can spend it, you know, you put it in a checking account and in which case you get like
 zero interest and so on. And a stablecoin, you get both, you know, you get it's like, you know,
 natively yield bearing and it's it's very transactional. You can use it for payments and you can issue
 cards on top of it and and so on. Another reason why it makes financial sense, like we thought that
 these things would would would become, you know, very important, but it's taken a little bit of time.
 Yeah, yeah, no, I love it. One other thing that I wanted to ask about was just the kind of like
 security bit because in a way, that's sort of what circle and tether are offering, right? It's like
 they're they're kind of managing this reserve and they're making sure it's fully backed and
 all this stuff. So how have you solved that problem for for this product?
 Yeah, I mean, this is this is like, you know, in many ways that is the product that the product
 is like is managing managing reserves is ensuring liquidity and is ensuring security. And this is
 something we've been building like really since day one of the of the company is like we actually
 ended up issuing our our very first stablecoin probably two and a half years ago. Just the business
 has like, you know, really started to scale and like the, you know, we've had to rebuild and retool
 the platform, which is what this announcement is about because of all of that scale. But under
 the hood, you know, all of the assets are managed with core banks, you know, BlackRock is the primary
 partner we use to manage to manage the treasuries. And we have a bunch of other banks that we're
 bringing online as the platform scales. And then on the actual like, like stablecoin issuance side,
 every single, you know, all of the smart, you know, at this point we've issued dozens of stablecoins,
 all of the smart, we have like a standard smart contract that's been audited, you know, umpteen
 times, you know, and then any additional time any any edits end up getting audited again and again
 and again. And this is like, you know, ultimately, the core of what we do is like we have to ensure
 that the that that there are never more, you know, tokenized dollars outstanding than there are actual
 dollars and treasuries under the hood. And that's like, that's that ultimately that success for us.
 And actually, I just realized one other thing, are there any security issues from the side of
 the customer who was creating their own stablecoin? Like, you know, like I just think about, you know,
 these companies, they have these multi-sigs and stuff like that. So is there anything just like
 internally that are would be best practices to protect, you know, their company stablecoin?
 There's actually like a real benefit to what it's like very beneficial to have your own stablecoin. So
 one of our early customers who is in the o-bank, they issued a stablecoin. They were they were,
 you know, they're one of our firsts and one of our biggest to scale with stablecoin issuance.
 Pretty early on, they actually have one of their customers that lost the keys to their multi-sig
 wallet. And because we had issued the stablecoin and it was their stablecoin, they could elect to
 remotely burn the stablecoin and recover the customer's funds, which is not something that
 would have been possible if they were building on top of, you know, USDC or USDT. And so, you know,
 that was a process where we had to work together to do it. You can't just like remotely, you know,
 they couldn't just remotely burn on their own. But there are these benefits that come and you could
 kind of think of it as like added security for folks who were building stablecoin based applications
 to ensure that or to give more protections to their customers in case, you know, something happens
 on the wallet side or they can't recover their keys or whatever else. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah,
 I'm sure that would give like a piece of point, painful, you know, like becoming your own bank is
 like appealing. And then when you really think about the details, sometimes it's like, wait a second.
 Yeah. I mean, I was at coin, I worked at Coinbase for, you know, a while. And one of the things we
 have frequently say internally was that Coinbase, Coinbase is like killer feature was password reset.
 Pretty much, pretty much. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So I did want to ask you also because it has been
 a while since you were last on the show. And at the time, you said that you had a few hundred
 customers, I think like 300 or something. And you, you know, we were talking about some of them were
 like gigantic companies, more really tiny. And I just wondered, like, since the Stripe acquisition,
 you know, how has business changed for you? Like how, you know, how I'm in also with the passage of
 the Genius Act, like I'm sure that your there's like very exciting moment in time in stablecoin.
 So I'd love to hear kind of like what it what it's like, especially like considering this
 right back position. Yeah. I mean, after after the acquisition, we very viscerally felt a shift
 along the adoption curve. But before the before the acquisition, it was like, you know, a bunch of
 folks who had had on their own had gone along the journey and decided that stablecoins were going to
 be super helpful to them. And most of them were small teams, developers outside of the US, you know,
 it was like the earliest of the early adopters, you know, in Argentina or Mexico or Europe or wherever
 else. And then after the acquisition, it just like immediately shifted. And we were talking to,
 you know, large fintechs, we were talking to treasury teams for enormous, you know, e-commerce
 companies, we were talking to banks. And so the last year, it's really felt like we've gone through
 like five years of like, you know, the adoption curve all at all at all at all at once. And you
 know, it this is now like manifesting in the customers that we're supporting. You know, it's
 manifesting in like, you know, the other the other day, we announced that we were launching with
 remitly. And we announced we're launching with ramp. There's a bunch of, you know, now banks are
 like super keen on exploring the stablecoin space. We're doing more and more work with the networks
 because we want, you know, because stablecoin settlement, we think it's going to be really
 important. All of these bits of infrastructure that, you know, in use cases that we thought
 were going to happen are really starting to come together. All right. So in a moment, we're going
 to talk a little bit more about the relationship between strife and bridge, et cetera, et cetera,
 but first or quick word from the sponsors make the show possible. Over 3.4 billion transactions
 processed without disruption, more than $1 billion in stablecoins circulating, over $720 million in
 real world assets tokenized on chain, all delivered with subsecond finality, block times under 100
 milliseconds and fees less than a 10th of a cent, making Aptos more than 100 times cheaper than other
 leading blockchains. Built by the team behind the DM project at meta, Aptos is what blockchain
 performance looks like when it's built for global financial markets. Discover why global
 institutions like BlackRock, Franklin Templeton, and NBC Universal are building on Aptos and see
 for yourself at the Aptos experience October 15th to 16th in Brooklyn. Mantle leads the establishment
 of blockchain for banking as the next frontier. UR is the access layer that transforms Mantle
 Network into a purpose-built vertical platform, the blockchain for banking that enables financial
 services on chain. UR unifies and vertically aligns Mantle's focus on payments, trading,
 and assets. MI4, Emmeath Protocol, functions of BDC, supported by developer grants, ecosystem
 incentives, and the industry-leading distribution platform through the UR app, rewards station,
 and buy-bit launch poll. All economic activity within UR will be captured by Mantle Network
 to further drive value to token holders and establish its significance in blockchain for banking.
 Follow Mantle, underscore official to learn more. Back to my conversation with Zach.
 So we're going to just clear the air for people, including myself, because I also
 was a bit mixed up on the relationship between the various entities and projects that are kind
 of interrelated here. So just explain in like very clear terms what the relationship is between
 Stripe, Tempo, Bridge. You could throw in privy, like go ahead and just explain it all for everyone.
 It's a great question. Stripe, Bridge, and Privy are part of Stripe. You could really think about
 us as different layers of the stack. Privy is like the account layer, very close to the blockchain.
 Pretty much everybody, actually everybody who builds on chain needs a wallet. They provide that
 wallet. Bridge is one layer of abstraction higher. Bridge is like the bank account.
 Bridge moves money across the fiat world and the blockchain world. We use wallets and we issue
 stablecoins, but we're kind of act like the bank if you think about it. Then Stripe is ultimately
 the application. They're basically taking bridge services and taking privy services
 and delivering them to Stripe customers in ways that make sense for them. The most obvious
 example is like pay with crypto via Stripe checkout, Stripe, which we launched with Shopify.
 And so that product sits on the entirety of the stack. And so customers can, developers can come
 to us and they can work directly with privy. If they just want wallets, they can work with
 bridge and privy if they want wallets and money movement or they could work with Stripe if they
 just want everything taken care of and abstracted away for them. Tempo is the lowest level of that
 stack. It is the actual payment rail. Tempo is an independent company outside of Stripe, incubated
 by Stripe. And it is one payment rail that bridge will use as folks want to once build us, but they
 can also use Solana or base or any other blockchain. And the same thing applies for privy. They will
 privy will provide wallets, but they'll also provide wallets elsewhere.
 Okay. So in terms of how much you are working on Tempo, it's like there's another group working
 on Tempo and they might reach out to you for help or to use bridge in some way, but like you're not
 like, I don't know, giving your input necessarily on that.
 Yeah. I mean, they're an independent company building a blockchain that will be a totally
 decentralized blockchain and payment rail. And we think that many bridge developers will want
 that blockchain because it solves many problems that exist elsewhere. It will be a very good
 blockchain for, you know, we do government aid programs where we send tens of thousands of
 different payments out all at the same time. It will be a very good blockchain to facilitate
 that type of activity. And so folks might choose to do it. But if they don't want to use it,
 they can use, you know, Solana or base if they want it to. And I want to ask this question,
 but I'm a little nervous that listeners might get touchy about the question. So if you're one
 of those people, you know, I just have to ask this, but I just be curious. So, you know,
 Tempo is going to be this like payments focused blockchain. What is it about the current options
 that is not ideal? Like what problems do you still come across with your type of work?
 That need to be resolved that you think perhaps Tempo could be, you know, because they're focused
 specifically on payments that that chain could resolve. Yeah, I mean, it's a it's a it's a it's a
 good question. I'll give a couple of examples. So and by the way, we work with all of these teams
 and we think they're all great. And we support many developers who are building with them.
 But but on Solana, for instance, when you need to create a wallet that accepts USDC,
 you have to, you know, prime that wallet to be able to accept USDC, which costs, you know,
 since sometimes I think it's like 20 cents or something like that. And we had a very large
 developer who is coming to us. They have millions, millions and millions of customers.
 And they wanted to create Solana wallets for all of their customers. The upfront cost of creating
 all those wallets was really, really high. And it made it, you know, not feasible. And it's one
 small thing, but but it makes it such that that blockchain is really hard for very scaled applications
 to create, you know, millions of millions of wallets for their end customers.
 Another example that we've run into is just like TPS limitations. You know, how many transactions
 can we push through these various blockchains? In many ways, we've made like tremendous progress
 over the last couple years, but the TPS requirements of stripe alone are, you know, an order of magnitude
 if not more, larger than even the highest performing blockchain today. And so, you know, while a lot
 of these blockchains are getting better at minimizing gas and getting better at, you know, moving lots
 of transactions, there's still this like, you know, discontinuous path that we need to get to
 to be able to handle payment scale applications. You know, and if a bank or, you know, if we're
 moving like serious money, you know, trillions of dollars a day, you know, many, many millions of
 transactions a day across blockchains, there needs to be something that is built specifically
 to solve those problems. Okay, yeah, I mean, I guess like one other thing is just when you talk
 about that, I'm thinking, well, if you do build a team that can resolve those problems, then
 is it the case that you, like, would you want to restrict that to payment use cases? And if so,
 how would you do that? I'm just thinking about like, I don't know if you're following this little
 war happening in Bitcoin right now about the NFTs and like what Bitcoin's supposed to be for and
 like they, some people want to hard fork and it's a whole thing. So, so I just, you know, and like,
 I'm seeing these arguments on Twitter where people are saying, how can you, how can you limit like,
 how people are using this? Like it's, so, so yeah, it's just another question that comes up when you
 describe like, you know, how tempo could resolve these types of things, or maybe it doesn't matter,
 maybe like if they do really have that many TPS, then then yeah, you don't need to restrict it or.
 Yeah, I mean, I mean, it is, it's going to be a blockchain that's decentralized. And so, you know,
 people can build whatever they want on it. So, you know, all those folks who are growing just
 satisfied on, on Bitcoin come, I guess, the tempo and they'll, they'll their, they'll their NFT
 applications on tempo. But, but that's not what we're focusing, that's not the problem we're focusing,
 we're focusing on. And like the, the tempo team specifically is focused on like, like we've just
 really wanted more, a more reliable, you know, blockchain that solves a lot of these very little
 problems, you know, like another example is that gas can be paid on tempo will be able to be paid
 in any stablecoin. That's like really nice. So, you don't need to acquire these different assets
 to, to be able to, to be able to fund transactions, which is another really complexifying factor
 to moving lots of money across various blockchains. Yeah, yeah, for sure. Okay, so I want to go back
 to, you know, just like, because you kind of gave a sneak preview of how your life has changed or how
 the world's upbridge has changed since the acquisition. And I'm sure, you know, just
 what we talked about, like with genius and I'm sure you're very well, tempo is not the only stable
 chain that's launching. So, I was just curious, like, you know, based on the conversations you're
 having right now, because I'm sure you are in a lot of rooms where you know, like what the future is
 going to look like and how crazy it's going to get or how cool it's going to get. So, I just would
 love to hear, you know, based on what you're hearing or what you're discussing with people,
 what do you think the future of crypto or payments would look like, you know, in a year or two?
 I mean, I guess the first thing I'll say is that I have been like constantly wrong
 about, about what would happen over the course of, over the course of a year. You know, I did not
 foresee a year ago, we announced this right back position in October. So, like, you know,
 I did not foresee that we would be in this situation where there's, you know, such regulatory momentum
 that, you know, we're seeing basically every fintech do something with stablecoins that there
 is like this increasingly consensus view that stablecoins can be helpful in some way, shape,
 or form if you run a global money business. And so, yeah, I didn't see that happening.
 That being said, if I had to like look into my very murky crystal ball,
 I, you know, the payments world is like one of network effects. And so, what I expect to happen
 is that progress will be steady and then dramatic. And a good example of this is like stablecoin
 settlement across the card networks, Visa and I think maybe just Visa at this point does stablecoin
 settlement. But right now, stablecoin settlement is less efficient than fiat settlement. And the
 reason is because the banks are paying in with fiat and then Visa has to create the stablecoin
 and then pay out a stablecoin. So it's an extra step to pay out a stablecoin. But if the banks are
 starting to settle with stablecoins and then Visa is also paying out in stablecoins, then it's much
 more efficient. And so that like flywheel needs to like slowly be cranked. And then once it's spinning,
 you can get all sorts of amazing things like, you know, imagine you're a merchant and someone pays
 you and the money is instantly available in your bank account versus T plus two. Those sorts of
 things become possible where you actually have streaming of payments into your bank account and
 so on. But it necessitates slowly building, you know, settlement to Visa, settlement from Visa,
 you know, over over time. And the cool, the amazing thing that's happening now is we shift down this
 adoption curve is we're starting to see banks lean in, we're starting to see the networks lean in,
 we're starting to see all the cross border payments companies lean in. And so all these folks that
 are tying together our global money movement infrastructure are beginning to crank the flywheel.
 And what I think is going to happen is over the next, you know, year to three years is that we're
 going to start to see a very, you know, stablecoins have historically been left trading, you know,
 and then they were like cross border, but we're going to start to see like 10, 15, 20% of all global
 money movement shift to these tokenized rails. And this is going to be the core way in which money
 moves. And real success is when like stablecoins just become infrastructure, you know, coming back
 to our other conversation, it is that there's just is no world where people go to the stablecoin
 store and pick between 700 different stablecoins. That that all of this is going to happen with
 stablecoins converting between a Visa stablecoin and a bank stablecoin and a, you know, Coinbase
 stablecoin and a Phantom stablecoin, all of it happening under the hood as money moves between
 all these different parties. And so I'm like, we've long believed that that that, you know,
 tokenized money is just going to be core global money movement infrastructure. And we've started
 with some of the earliest use cases. And we're now we're starting to shift to some of the much,
 you know, more mature and much bigger and much more, you know, critical money movement opportunities.
 And out of curiosity, I'd love if you could just pick hypothetical people around the world
 to describe like how their lives would change. So it can be like any geography or like type of
 worker or, you know, family relationship or whatever. But I'm sure there's a few different
 use cases that you think will be transformed. Yeah, I mean, maybe maybe just taking a step back
 before going into people I have like, this is one of the things I love about FinTech is, you know,
 seeing it from like, I worked at Square pretty early on. And just enabling people to be able to
 accept money. A little easier, you know, like a flower merchant being able to accept a card
 payment, whereas before it was really hard for them to be able to get a card reader and so on,
 just dramatically changed their lives. And so very small improvements in the cost of doing business,
 very small improvements in the market. I mean, this is what Stripe did, you know, Stripe by building,
 by making it easier to accept credit cards online, dramatically change the fortunes of, you know,
 people who are building businesses all over the world, because now all of a sudden they could
 serve the world. Whereas before they were only able to serve folks locally. So very small changes
 in the way money moves and the way you in the cost of accepting money and the cost of sending
 money have these like profound ripple effects that sometimes are very hard to notice. Some of the
 things that we're really starting to see already are that, you know, one of the big things is like
 people all over the world for the first time have actual economic choice. You know, like before,
 you, if you were, you know, host on Airbnb, or you were, you know, data labeling on scale AI,
 or you were doing work on Upwork, you could only get paid out in your local currency.
 Now you have economic choice, you could pick the currency that you want to hold. And, you know,
 a lot of people all over the world are picking right now to save in stablecoins. Another example
 is like cards, for instance, have never become widely popular across the African continent
 for a bunch of different reasons. And because of the instability of local currency, you know,
 the lack of card access and the instability of local currency is huge swath of the African
 continent doesn't have access to core services that we just take for granted. Like you can't pay
 for AWS, or it's very challenging to pay for Google ads, or, you know, how do you pay for open AI?
 You know, if you wanted to use any of these, these, like these services, it's very challenging
 now merchants will decline your payments because they don't, they can't get Naira out of the country.
 So it's very hard to accept those payments. But now if you have a bunch of folks holding stablecoins,
 and, you know, they could either pay directly with those stablecoins, which they would love,
 or you could issue cards on top and then the stablecoins are settled directly to the end customers.
 Another big thing is like, imagine every consumer deposit is earning 3%.
 You know, that's a lot of economic surplus that is delivered back to consumers and businesses.
 And, you know, maybe the last thing I'd say is like, you know, I mentioned this before, but
 imagine every merchant right now, you know, you're selling something online. It takes you two days
 to get your money, sometimes five days because of risk and whatever else. Imagine after every
 single swipe of a card, every single payment, the money lands in your bank account immediately.
 That saves like days of work and capital for you. It enables you to operate your business more
 nimbly. So I think there are going to be this like, and those are the ones that just come to mind.
 And like I said, I've been horribly wrong at predicting the future. So there are probably more
 that are like way more profound that that will occur over the next, you know, one year or five
 years or 10 years. Yeah. A long time ago, I think this might have been, I don't know,
 eight years ago, or I truly don't know. Anyway, Roya Mabou, who is an African entrepreneur,
 came on the show and she talked about how she had this like blogging business where there were all
 these little bloggers on her site and many of them were women. And in Afghanistan, they had a
 hard time paying the women because a lot of them didn't have bank accounts. Or if they did,
 their mill relatives would confiscate their earnings. So they set them up with Bitcoin wallets.
 And then they taught them how to do that. And obviously the mill relatives didn't know how to
 confiscate the Bitcoin. And so that's how they were paying them. And I, you know, I feel like that's
 like an example of, you know, it's very similar to what you were talking about with the merchants
 who suddenly had a way to, you know, sell to the world with Stripe, like, but that's like a more
 just even more kind of, what's the word like, you know, someone who doesn't have access to,
 to outside, you know, money. And yeah, that would be like another example of how stablecoins could
 change people's lives. Yeah, totally. Yeah, you mentioned the like the credit cards that could be
 created out of people receiving stablecoin payments. And you have a product that you announced just
 in this ring, just like that, stablecoin backed credit cards. And that started in Latin America.
 And I was wondering, like, you know, again, why was that like one of the first things that you did?
 And like, I would love to hear kind of the strategy behind, you know, choosing that region.
 I mean, we one of the maybe coming back to this theme of being a bad prognosticator of the future.
 Like many of the things that we have created, it has come from demand from the developers who've
 been building on bridge. And we've just seen a lot of developers who've been building payouts
 products. So, you know, maybe you're helping a platform pay workers all over the world,
 or they're building neo banks, you know, maybe you're building, you know, Cleva is building with
 us, they're a neo bank in Africa or dollar app, you know, across latte and and all of them want
 other means to take stablecoins and be able to spend them in the world. And stablecoins are
 clearly this very important infrastructure on top of which you can build savings and savings products.
 But then in order to spend them, either you need stablecoins to be accepted, which is slowly starting
 to happen with, you know, strike, turning it on for all of its merchants and so on. But that's
 going to take a while to compound or two, you need stablecoins to be interoperable with the networks
 that exist today. And the biggest of those networks are Visa and MasterCard. The really cool thing
 that we're doing with them, though, is that is that stablecoins are really the first global
 financial building block. So, you know, before stablecoins, if you were building a financial
 product, you build on US banking staff to serve US, Mexican to serve Mexico and so on.
 Stablecoins enable you to serve, you know, hundreds of different countries all at the same time.
 And so our card issuance product also enables you to deliver a card into those markets.
 And so I think it's at like 57 or 58 different countries now. So you could build a stablecoin
 savings product and then launch a card into 58 markets all at the same time,
 which is like completely unheard of before stablecoins.
 Well, yeah, I honestly like, which I'm thinking because I have some people that we pay in that
 region. And I was like, oh, I wonder if they might be interested in this. I did also want to ask
 because so British has its own stablecoin, USDV. Talk about how you guys use that.
 Yeah, I mean, it's the same way that we've been talking about with the open issuance platform.
 So USDV is built on top of the open issuance platform. And it's mostly mint as, you know,
 an easy way for developers to who want to come in and want access to be underlying economics of
 a stablecoin immediately to be able to to be able to access them because we know that in order to
 build like world class financial products for their customers, you know, you need access to
 to the underlying economics. And so we built USDV as a means for folks to come in day one,
 hit our API, you know, convert dollars or other stablecoins or whatever else in the USDV,
 earn the economics, you know, and then you can convert back into USDT or USDC or dollars or
 whatever else when folks want to spend or save or or what have you. Ultimately, we think everyone,
 this is kind of like a USDV for us is like a, you know, trial product because we want we believe
 everyone ultimately will want and benefit from their own stablecoin and we make it so easy to do so
 that then you could just hit a different API, create your own stablecoin, customize your reserves,
 you know, and then have much more control over the asset and what blockchains it's on and so on.
 Oh, okay. And so just to understand, so basically, like if they come to bridge and they want to use
 it right away when they start using the API, they could, if they're going to have stablecoins,
 they could just get USDV kind of quickly and easily. But if they end up using the open issuance
 platform, then they kind of can create their own. But maybe in the meantime, it's like USDV.
 Exactly. Exactly. And ultimately, this is kind of because, you know, most people today, there's a
 perceived, it feels like a big deal to create your own statement point. You know, and that's
 because like when people create a stablecoin, it's like news and like people write about it and like,
 you know, folks are like, Oh my gosh, you created, you created a stablecoin. Ultimately,
 we think that is just going to go away and everyone is going to just think like, Oh, of course, when
 money is on my platform, it's going to be my money. And when money is on someone else's platform,
 it's going to be their money. And I would think of USDV as like a graduation path to get folks
 there because it's readily available and right there out of the box.
 Okay. And then I did also just want to ask a little bit more about like the connection between
 bridge and privy, because, you know, I, so I understand like, you know, Stripe has its own
 customers, you have your own customers, privy has its own customers, but then you also said like,
 customers could also use multiple parts. So I just are there like specific ways that you've
 been working together with privy or is it really just developers choice if they want to work together
 with both of you or how does that work? I would say that yes.
 So it is first and foremost, it's developers choice. You know, this is like, we're just like,
 we're totally in end day share a very similar ethos, like totally in service of developers and
 the folks who are building on our APIs, like we have not tried to force any one thing or direction,
 what have you on on folks like it is. Ultimately, we believe that like all the folks are building
 a stable wooden application will show us what is most useful. And then we will make it easier
 and easier and easier for them to scale whatever it is that they want to build. That being said,
 there are clear ways in which, you know, if someone wanted to come to us and use bridge and
 privy together, it's just easier. You know, there's like, you know, through the bridge APIs,
 you can create privy wallets, you have one set of APIs through which you can access
 multiple products. If you want to go down and operate closer to the blockchain, there's a seamless
 graduation path to do that and to and to use privy. And similarly, if you come in and you want wallets
 and you want to build a privy, it becomes very easy to come and use bridge with that. But if you
 don't want to use bridge and you wanted to use another or you could, you know, privy is not going
 to force you to force you to do that. I would think of all of these as like different doors,
 you know, that folks can enter based on where they are, you know, and what their preferences are.
 It's the whole stack works, you know, better together, but we're not going to force the stack
 on on on anyone. The market is like way too early for for any of that. Like we want people to have
 to build the best products for their whatever their needs are.
 Yeah, that makes sense. So I have to ask you because you are part of the winning
 USCH proposal by Native Markets, bridge was, and as I'm sure you're well aware, that was a huge
 deal in crypto. Like people, I thought, yeah, I don't I don't know if the hyper liquid team expected
 that. But anyway, so obviously the the USCH coin just launched and you guys are the issuer,
 you also offer its global compliance and global global compliance profile and fiat rails.
 So just explain like what it is that you're doing for USCH and, you know, just, I mean,
 I know it's been a few days, but if there's anything notable to say about, you know, what's been
 happening since launch. Yeah, I mean, USCH is built on top of the open issuance platform. And I think
 this like just just highlights how much easier open issuance makes the issuance process. You know,
 like when we sort of won the bid and then we were ready and had deployed the token, I think we won
 the bid on Sunday morning and we were ready and had deployed the token Sunday afternoon.
 It did not officially go live and like, you know, with market makers and what have you for,
 you know, just because the team wanted to ramp up and slowly do some stuff for like another
 10 days or seven days or something like that. But but but it was like ready pretty much
 immediately for the for the ecosystem. And like that's that's like amazing, you know, like it is
 this was this process where like when PYUSD was launched, it was like years
 and, you know, like Robinhood announced that they're rolling out as stablecoin and it still
 hasn't rolled out. And and with USCH, we we launched a Bitcoin in hours. And so,
 but I just need to understand the timeline because obviously they had proposed it before,
 so was there like work ahead of them? You know, like, and hopefully this won't seem
 conspiracy theorist, but they even made the proposal like right after, you know, the
 announcement was made that proposals were open. So it looks like they had actually been working
 out of a four. So like when you when you give that little timeframe, is there more like we're
 kind of before it that that you're not counting or? Well, we had been we had certainly been talking
 to the to the to the team. I mean, I mean, the the the the the native markets team, they had wanted
 to build a stablecoin on hyper liquid for a while. You know, and honestly, Paxos could have wanted
 to build a stablecoin on hyper liquid a year ago if they wanted to, or, you know, Agora or any of
 the any of the other folks in the process. Ultimately, I think any of these processes, like if there is
 a stablecoin this issued on the next blockchain, what's going to happen is some team native to that
 blockchain is going to be like, Oh, I think we should have our own stablecoin. They're going to put
 forth a proposal to the community. And then just like what happened here, a bunch of people are
 going to pile on pile on behind to try to to try to compete. So somebody has to be first to to kick
 the process off. I think that they believed. I don't want to speak for them. I would just say like,
 I I had zero idea that this was going to turn into the the mud fight that it ended up becoming.
 But but but we had we talked to the team before and and spent time with them and so on. But but
 honestly, we didn't know, you know, halfway through the prop, we had no idea what was going to happen.
 Yeah, but but I don't know if you so my question was really more like when you say that it just took,
 you know, a few hours to basically launch it. Like, is that like for any company that comes to you
 and they want to launch their own stablecoin? Is that the timeline that they should expect? Or
 does it? Is there like a longer timeframe? If if there is no customization to the smart contract,
 yes. If there is customization to the smart contract, then it needs to be audited. And then
 that takes time. But but but you know, you could come to us and you could literally be hitting our
 API and say, Hey, I'm taking USD. I'm getting a bunch of dollars. I want to settle as USDC.
 And then you could just change an API parameter. And then all of a sudden you're settling in your
 own stablecoin. And that's really it. We just think that this is going to become a core part of
 stablecoin money movement that people are just going to want the money to be their own. You know,
 it is another another quick example of this is is like, imagine you have like Bank from America
 and JP Morgan. They're both using stablecoins. You know, Bank from America and JP Morgan are
 going to use USD. See, like they're not going to have deposits that are held at another financial
 institution, which is circle. And they're not going to use each other's stablecoin. So like Bank
 Bank from America sends Bank from America coin to JP Morgan. JP Morgan is not going to hold Bank
 from America coin because then JP Morgan's deposits are held at Bank from America. And vice versa,
 they're they're going to want to send the stablecoin and then the end of the day, net settle money
 so that all deposits are with the appropriate institution. Okay, this is so interesting because
 now then I am remembering that deposit token thing, which is like a slightly different version of
 the same concept or like a different way to solve a similar problem. Yeah, yeah, and I think
 deposit tokens are the same thing. Like every, whether it's a stablecoin or deposit token,
 ultimately, the only difference between the two is whether the stablecoin is backed by, you know,
 cash and like mortgages and other things or cash and treasuries. But but ultimately,
 they're they're representations of a dollar. And so I view these as like very, very similar.
 Okay, so I wanted to ask about a couple of other recent, you know, bits of news that you guys
 announced. So the bigger one I think you told me is the Shopify basic agreement, which, you know,
 bridge was a part of I also saw you partnered with M zero on the MetaMask M USD coin. So maybe
 just kind of wrap it up and and talk about like those two deals and like, you know, why, you know,
 you think they're important or how they came together or just whatever you think is important
 to mention about those. The two are very different. And we think of a lot of what we're doing is,
 you know, we're just like helping to push the stablecoin space forward and doing so with all
 the developers who want to build using stablecoins. And so Shopify wants to move into more countries.
 They want people in a bunch of different countries where they can't settle fiat to be able to accept
 and sell goods, because just because, you know, it's really hard for Shopify to spin up bank
 partners and custody and payout fiat and XYZ country doesn't mean that person should be shut
 off from the global economy. And so we view this as like a very big opportunity for Shopify,
 a very big opportunity for sellers in emerging markets, and just a very important bit of like,
 you know, turning the stablecoin flywheel, where stablecoins become accepted across
 Shopify merchants, they become accepted across Stripe merchants, then hopefully more people are
 paying directly with stablecoins and so on. So very excited, very excited about this. We think this
 is like, you know, the more and more requires. We also work with Shifor so that stablecoins can be
 accepted through all the folks who use Shifor as a payment processor. So we're very optimistic
 about what this will mean as like more and more folks come online to accept stablecoin payments.
 And then on the M0 side, they are a different partner, you know, they're helping us issue
 stablecoins. And we think, you know, stablecoin issuance solves this like other very big problem
 in the stablecoin space. And M0 has like a very unique approach and an amazing team
 to building a decentralized issuance service. And some folks who are going to want to issue
 issue stablecoins will want, you know, the infrastructure that they provide, but the backing
 of bridge and, you know, the money management of bridge. And so that's how we partnered with
 Metamask to launch MUSD and like, you know, it's been a couple of weeks now and it's like
 very successful and growing and we're super excited about it.
 Okay. And just to understand, so basically when you work with M0, then it's almost like it becomes
 like a white label product. Is that how to think about that? It's it's it's still bridges managing
 the funds under under the hood. And instead of hitting the the using bridge as like the issuer
 and the creator of the smart contract, M0 is the issuer and the creator of the smart contract.
 And M0 has also built very similar to our interoperability network. M0 has built a bunch of
 stuff to make the stablecoins that they issue interoperable. You know, and over time, you know,
 I think you'll be able to move between an M0 network and a bridge network. And you kind of just get
 to pick whether you're issuing with them or us and we're kind of indifferent. Interesting. Wait,
 so in a way, you guys are competitors, but you not know, I would I would I would we offer very
 similar services, but but people are going to tend to choose them that the audience that will choose
 and want M0 is different than the audience that will choose and want bridge or at least has been
 historically. And so you know, I would think about it like different segments of the market,
 like metamask from the very beginning, wanted to work with a regulated, you know, issuer under
 the hood, but wanted to work with M0 to do the smart contracts and some of the interoperability.
 And that was their choice. And we are happy to support it, because ultimately, what's success
 for us is that, you know, there are more stablecoins and folks fully control the assets that they
 issue so that the stablecoin space can be as big as it can be. Okay, so last question. While you've
 been talking, hopefully, I don't have too many people who work at banks who listen to this show
 because honestly, while you were talking, I just kind of kept thinking like the the downfall of
 banks is going to be pretty fast. Like maybe maybe what I just said is a little bit of hyperbole,
 maybe downfall is like a strong word, but I just was like they're they're going to be disrupted so
 quickly. I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong. I could be wrong. But point is the reason that I'm mentioning
 this is that, you know, as I'm sure you're well aware, we have another technological revolution
 happening at the same time. We have these AIs and I was just wondering, you know, like from these
 conversations you're having because I'm sure you're having a lot of when you look at these two trends,
 like where do you think that could go? Like what does that future look like to you?
 I would say I think that stablecoins and AI make, you know, an enormous amount of sense together.
 I think that I was talking to someone and they were telling me that like with each new technology,
 there tends to be a new money movement paradigm that supports that technology. You know, like the
 internet's internet was like really accelerated and enabled by cards or vice versa. Cards were
 really accelerated and enabled by the internet. I think that stablecoins represent something very
 similar in this world of AI because stablecoins can be held by nonhumans. You know, it's you can't
 really, you know, nonhumans can't hold fiat because you need to sort of be KYC and open a bank account
 and so on. Payments can be streams, you know, money can be programmed. It is just a better
 financial instrument, I think for this world. But I also think that it's going to take us some time
 to figure out the right context through which, you know, in the right use cases that where we
 begin to scale adoption. I'm like really excited about what CloudFlare is doing, you know, if they're
 paper crawl and like they're issuing a stablecoin that will be used, you know, hopefully by these
 agents as they crawl various websites and hopefully that use case scales. But we're in this phase
 right now of experimentation where people like you and me squint and like kind of see the opportunity,
 but we need a bunch of entrepreneurs to figure out how to turn the promise into reality.
 Okay. Well, it's been so fun chatting with you. Thank you so much for doing this and congrats
 on your new product launch. Amazing. Thank you for having me on. Unchained is produced by Laura
 Shin with help from Matt Pilchard, Juan Oranovich, Margaret Curia and Pam Majumdar. Thanks for listening.
 [Music]
