TITLE: Stablecoins Driving Real-World Adoption in Africa (Chris Maurice) [On The Brink]
URL: 
VIDEO_ID: yellowcard_2025_mixdown

TRANSCRIPT:
Hello and welcome back to On The Brink.
This is Nick Carter.
Today, I'm sitting down with Chris Maurice, the founder of Yellowcard, Africa's
premier crypto exchange and stablecoin payments company active in a number of
countries across Africa.
Chris rejoins the podcast after four years to talk about how his business has
evolved and how African businesses are interacting with stablecoins in the real
world. We're really glad to have Chris back at this fascinating time when stablecoins
are inflecting, especially in emerging markets.
He always has a great perspective.
Let's dive right in.
Chris Maurice, welcome back to the show.
You came on the show in 2021.
I don't know if you remember, did an episode with Ria back then.
So anyway, welcome back.
It's good to be here.
You know, I mean, unfortunately, nothing's really changed since 2021.
So I mean, it's probably going to be the same show.
Yeah. So if I recall correctly, you've been in crypto for well over a decade now.
How does now in 2025 feel in terms of excitement, like maturity, traction?
How does it feel to you after 10 years, more than 10 years of doing this?
Yeah, I mean, so I got into the space back in back in 2013.
Right. And I think, you know, it has
I mean, it's it's been through every cycle.
I mean, as you know, right, you've been you've been in a similar amount of time.
Right. So I mean, you know, we've been through every cycle, every,
you know, up and down roller coaster and all of that.
And, you know, I think 2015 or 2025, sorry, feels special.
And, you know, I know, look, I think a lot of people say this
every time that, you know, the industry is doing well and trending.
But, you know, the reason that I'm excited about it is I feel like this is the first time
that the industry has actually focused on practical use cases.
And I think that, you know, a lot of the focus that you're seeing now
on stable coins and things like that speak to that.
You know, whereas so many of the cycles before were about, you know,
what mean coins and NFTs and and
you know, ICOs and all this other stuff that that was not providing
sort of real practical use cases for, I mean, pretty much anybody.
Right. But certainly not for the majority of people.
And, you know, now with stable coins, you're seeing, you know, so much more
institutional adoption coming into the space in, you know, us to care away.
Right. And so I think it's it's made, you know, a big difference
having a technology that's actually, you know, stable and paid to the dollar
as sort of an entryway for people into the space versus, you know, mean coins.
Right. So since you last did our show in the last four years,
how has Yellow Cards product and business itself changed?
Yeah, I mean, we've we've also come a very long way in a, you know, a short amount of time.
Right. So, I mean, I think, you know, look, when we were talking back in 2021,
we were still pretty much fully focused on retail.
Right. When we started out, we were doing, you know, retail exchange.
And we were focused on how do you, you know, essentially take the Coinbase model.
Right. And, you know, replicate that into markets that that don't have access to,
you know, to Coinbase and to platforms like that.
And, you know, now
we are, I mean, you know, fully focused on businesses.
Right. And we're fully focused on how do you drive more of that institutional adoption?
And, you know, so much of that came on the back of stable coins.
So, you know, we listed stable coins back in 2020.
Right. So, you know, I mean, really right around, you know, right around that time.
And I remember, you know, the first day that we listed USDT,
because before that, we were 100 percent Bitcoin.
Right. We were doing just Bitcoin exchange.
Right. Essentially, the Coinbase model.
Nobody wanted the theory.
We had a theory of nobody wanted it.
So sorry to, you know, the people out there.
But that is the harsh reality on the ground outside of, you know, outside of the US.
Right. Nobody wanted it.
It was all Bitcoin, 100 percent Bitcoin.
And the first day that we listed USDT, we went to 70 percent Bitcoin, 30 percent USDT.
And that was, I mean, a pretty big jump for one day.
Right. And then, you know, as it went on, four months later,
we were doing 100 percent USDT.
Ninety nine point nine percent of our transactions were on stable coins four months later.
So, I mean, it was a complete swap in such a short amount of time to stable coins.
And that's what really made us start thinking and looking at what is the actual use case here.
Right. What are people actually doing with this technology?
Because clearly, it's not trading.
Right. Clearly, it's not a speculative use case if everybody's buying dollars.
And so, you know, we started digging into it.
We started looking more and, you know, we realized that the use case here is businesses.
The use case here is, you know, businesses, small businesses, large businesses,
whatever size that need to make payments, that need to make international payments,
need to send money across borders, settle invoices, you know, send money to friends,
family, et cetera, and other parts of the world.
And so, you know, we just dove in on that.
Right. And that became that became the sole focus of how do you how do you work with
businesses to improve their operations, to improve their internal treasury,
improve the way that they make international payments, improve the way that they access dollars.
It's so interesting because this is literally the number one question we get about stable coins is
who are the real world individuals or firms that are using them?
Is it just for crypto speculation or is there a real economic use case?
And I feel like you are on the front lines of this.
So can you maybe just like give us a bit of color on like, what's the alternative?
Like your clients, the businesses that use yellow card, what would they be doing otherwise?
And how is it better now that they have stable coins?
Yeah. So that's I mean, look, that's a great question.
And I think, you know, that's always again, that's always like you said,
that's always the pushback that you hear in the space is, you know,
what are the actual practical applications of this stuff?
Right. What are the actual use cases of this stuff?
And I think that, you know, with stable coins, you know, what it's doing in practice is
it's replacing the way that people interact with the US dollar.
It's completely changing the way that people interact with the US dollar.
So, you know, the businesses that we work with across emerging markets, right across Africa,
you know, Southeast Asia, South America, Middle East, any of these parts of the world.
You know, look, we specialize in operating in countries where you can't walk into a bank
and make an international payment, right, where you can't walk in and access dollars,
right, either because of illiquidity, because of, you know,
disconnectivity from SWIFT, any other number of reasons.
And so, you know, what we focus on is working with these businesses to help them be able to
make those payments in a way that doesn't require the incumbent system, which doesn't work for them.
Right. You know, SWIFT and correspondent banking were not set up for, you know,
you know, Argentina, Nigeria, Congo, right. It was set up for the US. It was set up for,
you know, Europe and other developed economies. And so, you know, the alternative and, you know,
frankly, what people did before, right, because nobody was sitting twiddling their thumbs waiting
for us to exist and waiting for this technology. You know, what people did before is they went to
the informal market. And you see this across so many of the countries that we operate in.
You see this in, I mean, generally in, you know, emerging markets. It's, you know,
essentially ho-wala, right, if you're familiar with, like, ho-wala and, you know, that system,
right. But, you know, I mean, essentially, you know, hey, I know Nick and Nick has an uncle in
the UK. So I'm going to give Nick money locally. And then Nick's uncle is going to give my guy
money in the UK. Right. And look, I'm sure your uncle's a lovely guy. Right. I'm sure he's great.
Maybe he's, you know, perfectly capable of facilitating those transactions.
But I don't think I need to explain to anybody why Nick's uncle is not the best way to.
Yeah, I do actually have an uncle in the UK, believe it or not. But I don't think he's
engaging in ho-wala. So I guess across, like, Africa, I mean, people treat it as a monolith,
which obviously it's not. In terms of different usage modes across the continent, do you notice
any regional differences in how your clients are using stable coins? Is it different in Nigeria
versus Kenya versus South Africa? Like, what do you notice there? Are there regional differences at all?
You know, I think I think that the the main differences are in the way that
people adopt the technology more than it is the actual use cases. Right. I think that,
you know, in general, again, you know, this, you know, stable coins are changing the way
that people interact with the dollar, right, regardless of, you know, regardless of how they
interact with the dollar today or regardless of anything like that. So from that standpoint,
it's the same. And frankly, it's the same that, you know, the same way that we see it in, you know,
parts of Southeast Asia and South America and, you know, other parts of the world. I think that the,
you know, the big regional differences that we've seen are more around West Africa, right. In general,
people are just a lot more aggressive about, you know, adopting new technology, right. And you see
this all the time across, you know, Nigeria and other markets, right. They're always sort of the
first to be on top of new tech and, you know, new ways of improving efficiencies and doing
things better. So I think, you know, we've seen, I mean, just aggressive growth from that region
from the beginning. Right. And, you know, I mean, even now, right, I mean, you know, you guys did a
lot of work with these on the report about Nigeria, you know, how dominant those countries are in the
stable coin space. Right. And so I think, you know, West Africa, you see just a lot of adoption,
right. People are, you know, this is a technology that solves a lot of problems. So people are
finding ways to fit it in to their existing infrastructure, to their existing flows. I think
in, you know, static, right. And, you know, Southern Africa. So, you know, hey, your people, man,
that's, you know, where, you know, where you're from. Right. So, you know, that area, right,
you see a lot more sort of willingness to regulate. Right. And I think that, you know,
the adoption, not to say that it's been slow, it's been, you know, slower relative to like West
Africa. But it's also, you know, the way that they adopted is a little bit different, right. The
government is a little bit more on top of how do you regulate this stuff. And so, you know, that's,
I mean, look, you know, we got the first license on content out of Botswana, and that was, I mean,
three years ago now, that was in 2022. Since then, you know, South Africa has developed a
license. Namibia has a license. Zambia has sandboxing. You have, you know, Swatini has,
how do you say, sandboxing and, you know, regulatory, you know, some formulation of
a regulatory landscape coming out for the space. And so we've seen, you know, a lot of that in that
region. Right. And then I think in, you know, East Africa, you know, again, now you're starting to
see it, right. People, you know, work within the system a lot more closely in, you know, sort of
that part of the continent. And so you're starting to see more ways that this technology is being
implemented into banks. Right. And I think that, you know, moving forward for that region, that's
going to be a big piece of really driving adoption is making sure that banks and other sort of,
you know, incumbent players are utilizing and sort of offering this space rather than just,
how do you say, you know, going directly to the people.
So how have regulatory attitudes shifted in the last kind of three, four years? I mean,
obviously it depends on the country, but, you know, we've seen various periods of pressure and,
uh, you know, in some, in some cases, sort of like blame casting of crypto for inflationary
episodes and then periods of loosening pressure. Where would you say we are today on the continent
in terms of regulatory attitudes to let's just say stable points? Yeah. I mean, I think if you,
you know, if you look broadly across the continent, right. Uh, so, you know, look,
what I tell people is prior to November, there was no better place in the world to run a company
in crypto. Right. I think that that is, it's a combination of the number and the depth of
regulation across so many of the countries on the continent. Right. And this was, you know, again,
before November at a time when, you know, the U S was fighting it, Europe was fighting it,
everybody else was fighting it. Right. Um, and so, you know, largely you've seen, you know,
central banks and other applicable regulators embracing the technology and understanding the
benefits that it brings to job growth, to job creation, to, you know, economic development,
all of that. And yeah, I mean, you know, look, you're always going to have, um, you're always
going to have people that, you know, want to blame issues on new technology that, you know,
has only been around for a little while, uh, you know, much shorter time than those issues. Um,
but I think, you know, outside of, outside of that, if you look at the general trend,
especially over the past three years, there's just been a massive sea change in favor of regulation.
Right. And you're seeing this, you know, with the sec out of Nigeria, that's done a lot of great work
around regulating the space. You're seeing this in, you know, Kenya, right? Where we help draft
the, the bill that's in, in parliament that, you know, goes into, goes as far as to go into payments.
Right. And, uh, you know, get a lot more specific about, uh, you know, the space and how things
should be regulated and all of that. Um, and so, yeah, I mean, you know, look, overall, I would say
from a regulatory perspective, right, even Morocco, where, you know, in North Africa,
right. As I'm sure, you know, uh, you know, different system of law in, in, you know,
the, you know, North African Muslim countries. And it's, uh, you know, those are the only four
countries that have made this technology illegal at any point, right. And, and Morocco, Algeria,
uh, Tunisia, and Egypt, uh, even there, Morocco has a bill coming through, right. That, you know,
we've done a lot of work with, uh, you know, the, the central bank there and, and Hadijar Wafa,
the large commercial bank on, you know, how do you embrace this technology? How do you embrace
innovation in a safe way? Right. How do you do this in a way that, you know, is not going to,
to hurt banks locally? How do you do this in a way that's not going to hurt the economy?
And I think, you know, that has, uh, you know, that's culminated in a bill that, you know,
hopefully by the end of the year, you'll have a, you know, full regulatory regime
for this technology in Morocco. Right. So I, you know, it's, it's, it's not just companies
around the world that are, you know, coming around to this tech. It's also countries. It's also,
you know, there's, I mean, to some extent there's a race, right. There's a race to, uh,
you know, to reap the benefits from it. Right. Everybody knows what the internet did for the
U S economy because the U S was the first country to really embrace it. Right. And we invented it,
but yeah, I mean, other than that, um, and, uh, and so, uh, you know, I think that, you know,
countries are, um, countries are, how do you say, trying to position themselves similarly
to make sure that, you know, those benefits land within their borders.
And I don't want to be too provocative, but well, maybe I will be. So I'm sure you have
conversations with central bankers focus on dollarization. And my guess is there's some
degree of concern around that. I mean, nobody wants to lose monetary sovereignty. How do you
allay those concerns when you get those questions? Yeah. So in practice, we're not seeing this
technology dollarize on the ground. Right. Um, I know, look, some people disagree with me on this,
but I, you know, I tell people it'll be a cold day in hell before you walk into, you know,
a coffee shop in Nairobi and you're paying for your latte with, you know, Bitcoin or USDC or
anything like that. Right. It's just not, it's just not a future state that, you know, I necessarily
subscribe to at least any time in the near future. And you're not seeing any signs of it on the
ground. Right. Uh, you know, the reality is that domestic payments, local payments in most parts
of the world outside of the U S which, you know, where they're terrible, uh, work extremely well.
Right. You have, you know, if you're in Kenya, you have M-Pesa, which is great. I can pay for
anything. Right. From, you know, a taxi to a movie to a, you know, restaurant or whatever,
right. I can pay for anything. Um, in, you know, so many other countries, you have mobile money,
right? You have, you know, UPI in India, you have PICS in Brazil, you have, you know, all,
all of these various, uh, you know, tools and, you know, options for domestic money transfer.
So domestic money transfer overall works pretty well. And it's, it's just very in gray. Right.
Everybody's already using it. Um, I think that, you know, where stable coins come in and where
stable coins clearly are making an impact today in these markets, it's with international payments.
And, you know, the, the reality is that international payments are broken for most of
the world. Right. Look, even in the U S they, it's not like they're great. Right. I mean,
you know, sure. Like if you're sending money from the U S to Europe, you know, I can do that through
my JP Morgan account and it works totally fine. Right. It's like, not that hard, but you know,
for pretty much everywhere in the world, domestic or international payments just suck. Right. These
correspondent systems were not intended for, you know, emerging markets. They were not intended
for these countries and largely exclude them. And so that's really where you're seeing the impact
of stable coins is anything that crosses borders. It's helping, you know, critical imports, food,
medicine, you know, other consumer goods, enter countries more easily. It's helping those invoice
payment flows, you know, facilitate faster. Right. It's cutting out delays. It's, it's,
you know, it's fixing a lot of the problems in the incumbent system for international payments.
You don't have those problems for domestic payments. So there's just not as much of a,
you know, a demand to use dollars locally. Um, but yeah, I mean, you know, I, what I do firmly
believe is that this technology is not replacing local currencies. It's replacing correspondent
banking. It's replacing swift. It's replacing and completely change in a way that, you know,
you and I interact with the dollar. So when let's look at the Nigerian case study, I guess,
as an example, like when you sell the benefits of this technology, I mean, you know, you're looking
at a young online population, very entrepreneurial. Do you see, you see stable coins, you know,
helping that population integrate with, you know, the rest of the world in terms of both import,
export, and then like payroll, like developers in Nigeria working for foreign firms, getting paid.
It's like, that's kind of the story you're telling. Is that what you, is that also supported by the
data? Yeah. I mean, look, that's what's happening in practice, right? Is, you know, look, what I,
what I like to tell people is, you know, with global money movement, you have these, these super
highways, right? And, you know, you have this super highway that connects the U S and Europe
and Japan and other major economies. And, you know, again, like I said, right, you know,
if I need to send money from the U S to Europe, I'm not taking my money from my bank, you know,
going and buying stable coins, sending the stable coins to Europe, liquidating the stable coins for
Euro to put in my bank. That's not the, it's, it's significantly more efficient to just use
the incumbent system for now. Like, look, obviously the incumbent system will be completely
replaced by stable coins, right? I mean, you've already, obviously, you know, this with JP Morgan
and, you know, bank of America and all the other, you serve and everything else, visa, et cetera.
So you will replace that system eventually with stable coins. But the reality is, is that the
system as it is, you know, works today, right? These roads are very well paved. They're well
connected. The interstates are well kept up. The state is well funded to take care of it.
When you start talking about connecting to emerging markets on that global super highway,
right? Then you're talking about taking an exit. That's just a dirt road with potholes all over,
right? You got to go through the grand Canyon, your car's on E and you have three tires.
And, you know, that's essentially how money moves between, you know, the U S and then,
you know, more, you know, developing markets and emerging markets, right? That's how it moves
between, you know, you're up in these emerging markets. And so, you know, what stable coins
are doing, it's, you know, it's the first technology that comes in and actually builds
an overpass, right? It builds brand new infrastructure that actually works to connect
these countries to that super highway of money movement. So, you know, the way that I see it,
it's, you know, it's less about, and, you know, look, you know, again, I know, I, you know,
hear everybody in the space that wants, you know, banks replace tomorrow and all of that.
I think it's a lot less about that. It's a lot more about, you know, the practical,
immediate implementation of this technology is countries where the banking system does not
connect well to the global economy, including those people, including those businesses in,
you know, global commerce, right? Whether it's, you know, jobs, whether it's imports, you know,
exports, whatever it is, right? How do you include those countries into the global economy
in a much more seamless and connected way? And you really allow these countries to, you know,
develop their economy to the fullest of its potential.
So we did another study this year. I think it came out in May. I think you guys graciously
contributed data to that one as well as a study of actually bottom-up estimate of payments volumes
using stable coins. And what was interesting was we found the B2B sector was actually the fastest
growing and the biggest of everything. Because people think about stable coins as remittance
flows, P2P. It looks like now there's this emerging cohort of B2B, which is very interesting.
The other thing we found was Tether's dominance is penetration for stable coin payments was
extremely high. Is this what you're seeing as well? I mean, you know, Tether's sort of
75% of the market, maybe 70-70% on a supply basis, but in terms of payments share, it's 90,
at least in our sample. Are you seeing Tether Tron is basically still the number one mechanism here?
Yeah. Look, Tron is losing market share, but Tether is gaining market share.
Right. And I think we've not seen real competition to Tether yet on the payment side for stable
coins. And the reason why I think largely is USDC and the other major stable coins out there,
whether it's USDC, PYUSD, any of them, they are US focused stable coins, right? I think, you know,
as much as they want to focus on the whole world, and they should focus on the whole world, right,
but right now they're largely US focused, right? And they're seen by people, regardless of focus,
right? They're seen by people as a US token, essentially, right? Tether from the beginning
has been international, right? And has made a point of getting integrated into, I mean,
basically every exchange on earth, right? And so, you know, it doesn't matter if I'm in,
you know, Kazakhstan or wherever I am, there is an exchange where I can swap local currency to
Tether, right? That has, you know, proliferated everywhere. And, you know, they did a lot of
work to make sure that that was happening. I think that with, you know, USDC, you just,
you haven't seen it, you know, in local exchanges as much. And I think that that's starting to
change, right? You know, we're starting to see a lot more local exchanges and, you know, things
like that pick up USDC. I think obviously the IPO helps a lot, right, with, you know, all of their
efforts because they are, I mean, they're certainly trying, right? This is not, you know,
a knock on the circle team at all. They're trying to get it out there. But yeah, I mean,
I think until it's really ingrained in those exchanges and in like sort of the local,
you know, digital asset economy, it's hard to facilitate payments on it because there's just
not as much liquidity. The reality is there's just not as much liquidity for USDC in emerging
markets as there is for USDT, right? And that's why USDT is, you know, able to do that. And so I
think, you know, I think the solution there is, you know, I mean, frankly, if I'm USDT, I would,
you know, try to focus on reducing dependence on Tron, right? Tron has had a lot of issues with
fees and things like that, that, you know, we're seeing, I mean, a lot of people switch for that
reason. And some of them switch to USDC, right? Because Tron is still dominant for USDT. So I
think that's the big thing that, you know, I would focus on from their perspective. I think from,
you know, USDC's perspective, you know, these guys have, I mean, done a great job getting the
name out there. And obviously now with the IPO, I mean, everybody knows what USDC is. I think now
it's really a matter of how do you make sure that it is ingrained into every exchange around the
world, right? And I think that, you know, that's a big piece of it is just, you know, investing in,
you know, working with exchanges everywhere from, you know, Argentina to Brazil, all to,
you know, Nigeria to, you know, Kazakhstan and anywhere else, right? And just making sure that
that gets listed, that gets used, that gets available for people locally. And I mean,
you know, look, that's where Tether's head start has really helped it, right? Because obviously USDC
is number one in America. I imagine, I don't actually have the stats, but I imagine it's
probably more popular in Europe or getting there. But, you know, for the rest of the world, Tether
had a big head start sort of proliferating to the people. And yeah, that's, you know, you've seen
that play out. And so, yeah, I mean, look, we continue to see that, but the demand for payments
is largely on USDT because the payment rails of liquidity exist for USDT. And so it's just,
it's really a matter of, you know, anybody that wants to compete with that has to invest in those
rails, has to invest in payments. When you look at the infrastructure that has allowed stablecoins
to become more mature, I think we've made a ton of progress in the last couple of years
with wallets that don't require you to write down a seed phrase. I mean, you look at startups like
Privy or pushing the envelope there. I think at the same time, the liquidity picture has been
improving. I mean, thanks to companies like Yellowcard, of course, like linking the last
mile, you know, going from that dollar stablecoin to local FX. That's, I think, the most challenging
part of the stablecoin sandwich. What is it that you, what's on your wishlist in terms of improving
stablecoin infrastructure? I think, I mean, frankly, one of the things right now in terms
of like our infrastructure is probably the most expensive piece is just, you know, it's, I mean,
essentially just having to swap between chains and tokens and, you know, things like that. Right. I
think that, I mean, especially now as you're seeing, you know, now USDG and, you know, FIUSD,
and, you know, if, you know, Visa or Bank of America or any of these other major corporations
decide to put out a stablecoin, you know, in, look, in a few years, we're going to be in a
world where there are, you know, 30 major stablecoins. Now, you know, I mean, look,
how big are the market cap on all of these going to be? You know, we'll see. Right. But, you know,
I mean, you're going to end up in a world where there are, you know, 30 plus stablecoins that
people are using, at least in some way, shape or form, and those are spread across, you know,
another 30 chains each. Right. And you just, you need more interoperability. Right. You know,
it doesn't make sense to pay, you know, five bips every time you need to switch between USDT and
USDC because they're both a dollar in theory. Right. And so, you know, I mean, if every time,
you know, I sent you money to your Bank of America account from my, you know, Chase or JP Morgan
account, I'd be pissed if, you know, I was getting charged bips for a dollar to dollar transaction.
And so, yeah, I mean, I think that, you know, eventually what you'll see, and you'll look,
maybe this will be JP Morgan. Maybe this will be a major bank that, you know, takes up this,
you know, this opportunity. But eventually you will see, you know, one of these players with
massive amounts of liquidity because that's what it will take is massive amounts of liquidity
to, you know, essentially facilitate those, that clearing. Right. Where, you know, I, if,
you know, Nick uses USDT on Tron and I use, you know, USDG on Solana, I can send you money
it, you know, I don't have to do any extra work. Right. I can send it to you. You'll receive it
in the currency that you want. And, you know, you have, I mean, you know, again, maybe it's JP
Morgan. Maybe it's somebody else. Right. But you have, you know, some major liquidity source that
essentially clears all of that in the middle and, you know, charges some flat fee to do so. Right.
I think, I think that that is, I mean, that's one thing that's missing today that I think there is
a huge opportunity for, right. There's not, I mean, you know, is there a ton of revenue in it? Yes.
At scale because you'll have, you know, millions of transactions and you can charge some sort of
flat fee. But you, you know, this, this whole thing right now where, you know, I mean, you have
to pay, you know, BIPs to, to exchange between stable coins. That's not sustainable. Right.
Cause it's dollars. So I think that that's, that's certainly one of the big ones in terms of
yellow cards future. What do you want the company to look like two, three years from now?
Man, you look out two, three years. I mean, look, certainly you look out five years, every bank
in emerging markets is going to be utilizing our technology, right. Every single one of them.
And you're already starting to see this, right. There are a number of banks that we work with
across, you know, various parts of the world that need help. Number one, spinning up and managing
this infrastructure, right. They understand that this technology is coming, right. Everybody has
learned that lesson at this point. Right. And so they understand that it's coming. They understand
the tech is coming. I, they need to spin up infrastructure quickly and they need, you know,
the re the rails to be able to facilitate these payments outside of swift, outside of the
correspondent system. And that's already what we're seeing, right. We're seeing this in practice
with banks. And I think that that is the, you know, the big unlock for us is we're doing a lot
of work with a lot of major names in banking on how do you facilitate payments outside of swift
and providing them that infrastructure. Right. And so, you know, what excites me about,
uh, you know, the future for us is, you know, working more with, you know, these large
institutions, these large incumbents on improving their infrastructure. Uh, and, you know, just,
I mean, making things better for those consumers, right. I mean, you know, you made the point about
like B2B being a lot more popular than B2C and, you know, yeah, a hundred percent it is, right.
Because the thing is, is like the native use case on stable coins and, and frankly,
all blockchain like still kind of sucks, right. Like if I send you, you know, if I'm sending
money to your wallet and I type one letter wrong, then like my money's gone forever and I'm screwed.
And, you know, I mean, like that's still like the average person, like you, you and I can,
you know, talk about how, you know, the other benefits of the tech, but for the average person,
like they don't want that, right. They want to be able to call their bank and complain if, you know,
like their sandwich is undercooked and, you know, they didn't get a refund, right. Like they need,
you know, that, uh, you know, that consumer protection, they need that, uh, you know,
those other avenues, um, for somebody else to deal with it. Right. And that's why people like
their banks is because the bank deals with all the crap. And so, you know, I think, you know,
there's a, there's a huge opportunity for businesses, whether it's in banking, in remittance,
in, you know, payments, wherever it is to adopt this technology. And look, in a lot of cases,
it will mean lower revenue, right. Because the, the, the reality is that, you know, a lot of
the things that, you know, some of these businesses charge for do out of the, you know, the revenue
and the, the ability to charge for and do go away with stable coins. But, you know, it's the
difference between sort of, of becoming obsolete and adapting to a new technology that's going to
completely change the industry and, you know, being on the forefront of that. And I think banks
are starting to understand that they need to adapt to this technology. They need to be on the
forefront of this to stay relevant and to continue to provide better service. And, you know, the
reason that, you know, again, with businesses that you've seen more adoption is because businesses
are the ones that really suffer from these problems. Right. You know, individuals don't
send money overseas that often, right. Even if you're sending remittance or something like that
back home, you're usually doing that, you know, what, once, twice a month, right.
Businesses are making these payments every single day to the tunes of, you know, millions, billions
of dollars a day. Right. So these guys are really struggling with the incumbent system,
which is why there's so much more willingness to adapt to the technology and utilize the technology
even as it exists today. And so, you know, I do firmly believe that, you know, over the next,
you know, two, three years, we're going to be helping banks make their payments more effective,
make international payments more seamless for the businesses, for the consumers.
It'll all be run on stable coins, and none of them will, you know, ever need to know what,
you know, a private key is. Right. None of them will need to know what, you know, what a wallet
address is. Right. That's the same direction I see it going in developed markets, too, I think. So
I think the story is connectivity to the banks and that final integration with the financial system.
Chris, this has been great, as always. Thank you so much. We'll have you on, I guess, our cadences
every three years, every four years. So we'll bring you back and we'll see how you did.
My brother, I'll be back. And, you know, we will be, yeah, we'll be talking about,
you know, stable coins for babies or something at that point, man. That's,
I can't even imagine what it's going to do in four years.
Well, thanks for coming on. Appreciate it.
Always good to see you, brother. Appreciate it.
